

Chapter I: Age of Ancients
"In the Age of Ancients, the world was unformed, shrouded by fog. A land of gray
crags, Arch Trees and Everlasting Dragons.” A concise, yet effective way to describe
the world prior to the introduction of fire, a monotone world of dread and anguish, one that is void of any essence
of life. The Age of Ancients was ruled by powerful, everlasting dragons, known to
possess impenetrable armour in the form of stone scales, which provided the dragons with immortality. The dragons
ruled over all that resided in the Ashen land, and it did so peacefully, as the truth is, there was no opposition. The
world was stagnant, some may describe it as inanimate, as no life could be found,
nothing lived nor died, there was no progress or conflict, the world simply existed. For the longest time, life
remained nothing more than a shade of grey, a dull existence with no hope or purpose. Until one day, a miraculous event
took place, one that would change the course of time and usher in a new age that would collapse the rules of the old
world, and create a perpetual conflict that would last until the end of time. “But then there was fire, and with fire
came disparity. Heat and cold, life and death, and of course, light and dark.” From
far within the deepest cavern known to earth, fire ignited, forming the First Flame, and with it, introducing life to a
world stripped of it. Yearning for warmth, four primitive
creatures began revealing themselves, emerging from the underground caves that they called home. They were drawn towards
the flame, urging them to travel to the origin of the fire. To their surprise, from within the Kiln of the First Flame,
emerged Souls of Lords, extremely powerful souls that granted those who harboured them, immense power. The beings
decided to possess the Souls themselves. One of the Souls was claimed by Nito. His Soul turned him into the representation
of sickness, and death, rearranging his form into a combination of skeletons held together. Nito is referred to as the
‘First of the Dead’, this hints at the possibility of Nito being the first creature to ever experience death, as before
the igniting of the flame, nothing lived, or died. Nito’s Soul states the following,
“Gravelord Nito administers the death of all manner of beings. The power of his soul is so great that it satiates the
Lordvessel, despite the fact that much of its energy has already been offered to death.” The description of the Soul
indicates that Nito’s only purpose is to administer death to the world, he is the balance put in place to complement the
creation of life, as without death, there is no value to life.
The second Soul was claimed by the Witch of Izalith, and was split with her seven daughters of Chaos. The Third Soul was
taken by Gwyn, the Lord of Sunlight. When he found the Lord Soul, Gwyn’s legion of knights were present, this indicates
that Gwyn likely held power before obtaining the Lord Soul, although it’s unclear what power or influence one
would have under the rule of dragons. However, now with the Lord Soul at Gwyn’s disposal, he would wield the power of
generating lightning, something that would prove useful at a later point. The Fourth and final Soul was the Dark Soul,
which was obtained by the Furtive Pygmy, who is described as a "primeval human", likely the ancestor to the humans we
know today, the progenitor to the human race. His Lord Soul was a small black ember, distinctively different from the
other Lord Souls, and the Pygmy ensured that the existence of the soul remained unknown to the others. The Dark soul granted
the pygmy the ability to fragment it, and use its capabilities to create humanity.
“This black sprite is called humanity, but little is known about its true nature. If the soul is the source of all life, then
what distinguishes the humanity we hold within ourselves?” The description of Humanity questions it’s unclear nature
and confirms the soul to be the source of life, rather than Humanity itself. This aligns with the fact that every being,
from lords to demons, have souls, however not all beings possess Humanity. With
this knowledge, we can assume that although the soul is what grants life, humans possess both the soul and
humanity, giving them a unique identity, separating them from all beings in existence. Whilst the Gods depend on the
First Flame for power, humans inherit power from the consumption of humanity, signified by the reversing of a person's
hollow stature, back to human form. The power of humanity is fueled by the willpower and perseverance of the being
possessing it, it empowers those who refuse to give up. The subdued nature of its power is why Humanity was overlooked
by the Lords, as they desired quantifiable power, something that they could possess instantly. Humanity was
passed down to the descendants of the Furtive Pygmy and helped shape humans into what they are now. The Furtive Pygmy
is theorised to be Manus, Father of the Abyss, and forefather to the human species. Manus raised humanity in the
depth of the Abyss, a realm of darkness, one only inhabitable to humans, as beings
who are aligned with fire, including the gods, are vulnerable to being corrupted, and require specific equipment to
prevent them from succumbing to the physical and spiritual corruption of the Abyss. This brings humanity closer to the
dark, rooting their essence in the Abyss, whilst the lords strive for light, as the flame is what grants them power. Now that
Nito has acquired the Soul of Death, the Witch of Izalith, the Soul of Life, and Gwyn, the Soul of Light, the three would
possess the power to bring change to the world, as they no longer needed to live under the rule of the dragons. They knew
that if they would cooperate with one another, and use their newly found abilities to fight for the same cause,
they could overthrow the dragons and become the new rulers of the ashen world. And thus, preparations began, and war was
imminent. Once they were ready, the three Lords waged war on the dragons, the Witch of Izalith and her daughters weaved
deadly firestorms that would incinerate the lands, Gwyn would project his mighty lightning bolts towards the dragons,
piercing their scales and sending them spiralling towards the ground, and Nito would deliver the "killing blow by
unleashing a miasma of death and disease upon them." Alongside Gwyn, were his four trusted knights. One of which was Knight
Artorias, who was the commander of Lord Gwyn’s army. As described by his Wolf Ring: "Artorias had an unbendable
will of steel, and was unmatched with a great sword." Also involved in the war was Hawkeye
Gough, who later details his experience fighting in the battle against the dragons. According to the Hawk Ring, Gough
was the leader of the Greatarchers and his abilities with a great bow were unmatched, "taking down high-flying
dragons", allowing Artorias and his allies to slay the dragons from the ground. Gwyn’s third Knight was Dragonslayer
Ornstein, who was "believed to be the captain of the Four Knights" according to Ornstein’s Armor description. The Hornet
Ring reveals that the final Knight was Lord’s Blade Ciaran, who was notorious for using a dagger to lay waste to Lord
Gwyn's enemies. The unsung heroes of the war were the humans, who fought as the
Ringed Knights, the Dragonhead Shield description reveals that “The Ringed Knights, by command of the gods, stood
amongst the ranks who set out to slay the dragons, but their contributions were never lauded." This indicates that the
Ringed Knights were never honoured for their allegiance, and their involvement was kept undisclosed. They were also
tasked with forging armour and weapons to aid in the battle, as explained by the the Ringed Knight set, stating “The armour of
early men was forged in the Abyss”. Although for the longest time, the warriors spoken of, were known to be the
only ones who fought in the war against the dragons, the truth would later be revealed, showing that history had been
re-written, unfolding that there was indeed another warrior involved, one that had been unspoken off for many years. That
warrior being Gwyn’s first born son, the Nameless King. The Ring of the Sun’s First Born states the following, “The Sun's
first born was once a god of war, until he was stripped of his stature as punishment for his foolishness. No wonder
his very name slipped from the annals of history." This tells the story of Gwyn's eldest son being present in the war, the
fact that he's described as a god of war, indicates how truly masterful he was in battle. The Dragonslayer Swordspear
describes him as a “Deific hunter of dragons”, further amplifying his abilities.
With all of this being said, what could have possibly happened to wipe this warrior's name from history, denoting him to a
failure who’s name is forgotten, hence why he is now known as The Nameless King. The Soul of the Nameless King reveals that
“he sacrificed everything to ally himself with the ancient dragons”, explaining that his betrayal of his father resulted in
all of his accolades being stripped from him. The Lightning Storm description reads “Once a slayer of dragons, the
former king and wargod tamed a Stormdrake, on which he led a lifetime of battle." This statement reveals that after
taming the stormdrake, the Nameless King made the decision to side with the dragons, and leave behind his reputation
and all the good will that he had obtained over the years. The once revered and respected warrior, turned into a
Nameless being, whose existence may as well have never taken place. The Nameless King was not the sole
traitor of his kind, as during the battle with the Dragons, there was a betrayal that took place that would tip the
scales in favour of the Lords. The dragons were betrayed by one of their very own, Seath, the Scaleless. Seath was different
from the other dragons, as stated by his name, he had no scales, and this likely enabled him to be envious and resentful
towards the other dragons, he may have even been treated differently, and thus when the chance presented itself, he took
liberty in turning against his own kind, siding with the Lords instead. Another reason for his betrayal is Gwyn’s
promise of giving Seath control over the Archives, which is described as having “a trove of precious tomes and letters” This
would appeal to seth as the Moonlight Greatsword informs that "Seath is the grandfather of sorcery, and this sword is
imbued with his magic, which shall be unleashed as a wave of moonlight." Having access to the archives would grant Seath
the ability to further study sorcery, broadening his knowledge on the subject. Seath would put his sorcery to use in
the batte, by using weapons such as the Soul Arrows, which are “effective against iron armor, tough scales, and other
physically resilient materials”, making them perfect for piercing the dragons’ scales. Soon after, the dragons could
fight no longer, and although they weren’t made extinct, the majority of them were killed and therefore the reign
of the dragons had come to an end, paving their way to the rise of Gods, and the Age of Fire.
Chapter II: Age of Fire
Following their victory, Gwyn, Nito and the Witch of Izalith, inherited the world left behind by the dragons. Nito
descended into the Catacombs and slumbered within the Tomb of the Giants, where he continued to administer death
by using the energy of his lord soul. Those who worshipped the Grave Lord would travel to his tomb and become Gravelord
Servants, aiding Nito in administering death in all parts of the world, by using an Eye of Death. “The dreadful Eyes of
Death spread disaster across neighboring worlds. Phantoms lured to the host world may end up as victims,
allowing the Eyes of Death to multiply, and leading to further proliferation of bane. The eye summons evil spirits into
various locations to inflict death to its residents, in addition to luring the residents back to the Gravelord Servants,
who are tasked with killing the victims and bringing their eyes of death to Nito. This is further explained by the
Gravelord Sword Dance miracle, which states “Nito sleeps deep within the Giant Catacombs, quietly overseeing all death,
and waiting for his servants to usher in the Eye of Death.” Triumphant against the dragons, Gwyn
became the king of Lordran and lived alongside his clan of Gods in the city of Anor Londo. They continued hunting
descendants of the dragons to ensure that they remained feeble in a world of gods, allowing the lords to develop their
powers through practice. Gwyn was generous with his gifts to the majority of those who fought alongside
him, but not so much for humanity, who we already know had never been credited for
their involvement in the war. Gwyn’s attempt to reward the Pygmies is one of trickery and betrayal, according to the
Small Envoy banner, “For the pygmies, who took the dark soul, the Great Lord gifted
the Ringed City, an isolated place at world's end, and his beloved youngest daughter, promising her that he would
come for her when the day came." The true intention of Gwyn’s ‘gift’ to humanity is to isolate them at world's
end, and ensure that his youngest daughter Filianore would halt the flow of time, leaving them to exist in the past,
and be forgotten by the world. Also demonstrating Gwyn’s fear of humanity is the description of the
inged Knight Set, which reads “The armor of early men was forged in the Abyss, and
betrays a smidgen of life. For this reason the gods cast a seal of fire upon
such armor, and those who possessed them.” “A smidgen of life” refers to the sprite of humanity within the pygmy, the power
of the abyss, a source of strength that can only be utilised by humanity, and so
it brought fear to the gods, and threatened their reign, as humanity's existence is actively in conflict with
the Age of Fire. The gods cast a seal of fire on the Ringed Knights, and likely
the rest of humanity, branding them with the Dark Sign, which repressed their abilities. “The Darksign signifies an
accursed Undead. Those branded with it are reborn after death, but will one day lose their mind and go Hollow.”
This decision is later revealed to have far reaching consequences, ones that Gwyn
could have never anticipated, but for now, the world belonged to the gods. Preceding
Gwyn’s betrayal of humanity, he rewarded Seath, the Scaleless as promised. Seath was
recognised for his efforts and was deemed a Duke, granting him control over the Archives. This was seen as
distasteful by a close friend of Gwyn, called Havel, as he harboured immense hatred towards Seath. The Great Magic
Barrier miracle states “Havel the Rock, an old battlefield compatriot of Lord Gwyn,
was the sworn enemy of Seath the Scaleless. He despised magic, and made certain to devise means of counteraction.”
This statement suggests that Havel was loyal to Gwyn and fought alongside him during many battles, which further
emphasises the dislike Havel fostered towards Seath, leading him to fall out with his close friend Gwyn, as a result
of Seath being granted dukedom. As evidenced by the Magic Barrier, Havel took precaution by creating miracles
that provide coating which “greatly boosts magic defense, assisting warriors who must face the magic which Bishop
Havel countered so proficiently.” This allowed Havel to resist Seath’s magic if they were to ever confront one another.
It is unclear if Havel despises Seath due to his hatred for Magic, or if his hatred for Magic stems from his dislike
for Seath, however what is made clear, is that Havel distrusts Seath, and rightfully so, as he was a traitor to his
own kind, what’s to stop him from betraying Gwyn? In addition to acquiring miracles, Havel wields a Dragon Tooth,
presumably taken from one of the dragon corpses killed in the war, the tooth is described as a weapon “Created from an
everlasting dragon tooth. Legendary great hammer of Havel the Rock. The dragon tooth will never break as it is harder
than stone, and it grants its wielder resistance to magic and flame.” In addition to this, Havel wore armour “Carved
from solid rock, its tremendous weight is matched only by the defense it provides.” Due to the nature of his armour, he was
known as Havel the Rock. At some point down the line, Gwyn decided to lock Havel in the basement of a
watchtower for no clear reason. The Watchtower Basement Key reads “There are rumors of a hero turned Hollow who was
locked away by a dear friend. For his own good, of course.” This references Havel being imprisoned by Gwyn, and states that
it was for his own good, as he had turned hollow. It is suggested that the description tells the story of what
happened from the perspective of Gwyn, or at least tells the story in a way that Gwyn would have presented it. His once
close friend, who conveniently turned hollow when he began to object to Gwyn's choices. It seems more likely that Havel
possibly planned to confront his nemesis Seath once and for all, and was caught by Gwyn, who in return locked him away to
rot in a basement of a watchtower. A subsequent theory suggests that Havel was believed to be involved in the
Occult rebellion, which the Effigy Shield describes as an ill-fated plot to destroy the very gods. The reason that
Havel is associated with the occult, is because in Anor Londo, an Occult Club can
be found besides the remainder of his armour, and as the Dark Ember puts it, “Occult weapons were used to hunt the
gods, and are effective against their following and kin.” Could it be that Havel had planned to overthrow the gods?
Resulting in Gwyn locking him away as a safety measure, or would it make more sense to assume that someone, presumably
Seath, had falsely accused Havel of treason, by placing an Occult Club amongst Havel’s arsenal, Havel was most
likely a threat to Seath after all. A clear resolution is yet to be found, but based on Havel’s years of loyalty and
chivalrous behaviour, it is rational to assume that he was wrongfully imprisoned, and left alone in a cell for many years,
eventually losing his sanity, and turning hollow. Many years later, the flame began to fade,
threatening the reign of the lords, as if the flame was to dissipate, their power would vanquish along with it. Gwyn and
the other lords were desperate for a solution, a way to maintain the First Flame and continue the age of gods. The
Witch of Izalith, who at this point had settled with her daughters in the city of Izalith, was summoned by Gwyn to
recreate the First Flame, as an attempt to avoid the dwindling of the fire. She managed to generate a new flame in
Izalith, however the fire grew uncontrollably, forming a flame of chaos, and neither the Witch, nor her daughters
were capable of restraining it, growing to unprecedented proportions, until the colossal flame devoured the Witch. The
flame used the lord soul to fuel itself and moulded the Witch's body into a seedbed, forming the Bed of Chaos, and
mutating the occupants of the city into demons. Following the catastrophe that took place, Gwyn dispatched his Black
Knights to eliminate the Demons in Izalith. The Black Knight Shield states “Long ago, the black knights faced the
chaos demons, and were charred black”. Due to his Knights failing to defeat the Demons, and the flame coming ever so
close to extinguishing, Gwyn saw no other choice in sight, but to depart from Anor Londo and reignite the flame himself,
leaving his Silver Knights behind to protect the city in his absence. The Silver Knight Set declares that “When
Gwyn departed to link the Fire, his knights split into two groups. The Silver Knights remained in the forsaken capital
in service of their goddess." The goddess being Gwyn’s second born child, Gwynevere,
princess of Sunlight. Before departing on his endeavour, Gwyn divided and gifted pieces of his lord soul
to various beings, in order to have his power succeeded by those around him, following his sacrifice. The Great Lord
Greatsword suggests that Gywn “divided that power amongst his children, and set off with only this great sword as his
companion”. The Soul of the Four Kings explains that “Lord Gwyn recognized the
foresight of these four great leaders of New Londo, and granted them their ranks
and the fragments of a great soul.” The remaining piece of his soul was given to Seath, who was clearly a favoured being
amongst Gwyn’s clan. The Soul of Seath the Scaleless reads that Seath was “embraced by the royalty, and given a
fragment of a great soul.” With his soul divided, Gwyn entered the Kiln of the First Flame and sacrificed himself in
favour of prolonging the flames cycle, allowing the fire to engulf him and the Age of Gods to live on. Many of Gwyn’s
Black Knights ventured into the Kiln alongside him, but as evidenced by the Black Knight Set, “were burned to ashes in
a newly kindled flame, wandering the world as disembodied spirits ever after.”
Due to branding humanity with the Dark Sign, in addition to artificially prolonging the Age of Fire, a curse was
released upon the world, the curse of the undead. Beings who die, reawaken at bonfires, perpetually repeating the cycle
of life and death, until they eventually lose their sanity and become hollows. Reaching a state of being hollow is
marked by the decaying of the body over time, and once a hollow is killed, they no longer reawaken, but remain permanently
dead. This is the consequence of refusing to relinquish the Age of Fire, and disallowing nature to take its course.
The undead curse is the world's way of correcting the gods' wrong doings, and making way for the Age of Dark, an
inevitable state of existence, that will at some point take its course regardless of the number of times the light is
rekindled. The gods did everything in their power to constrain the dark, from casting the seal of fire on humanity, to
sacrificing themselves to the flame, not knowing that their actions were futile, and would only prolong the arrival of a
predestined future, a future of darkness. "Once, the Lord of Light banished Dark, and
all that stemmed from humanity.
These are the roots of our world. Men are props on the stage of life, and no
matter how tender, how exquisite... A lie will remain a lie.”
Chapter III: The Undead Pilgrimage
But soon the flames will fade and only Dark will remain. Even now there are only embers, and man sees not light, but only
endless nights. And amongst the living are seen, carriers of the accursed Darksign.” The Age of Fire, although extended,
grows weaker, and soon enough, the darkness will cast its shadow over the world. With the curse of the undead
harrowing the land of ancient lords, little remains but diminishing hope for the future. Here begins the tale of the
Chosen Undead, who awakens in the Northern Undead Asylum, a prison where all undead beings are confined, and left
to rot until the end of time. Upon awakening in a cell, the Chosen Undead is rescued by a mysterious figure, who
appears through a hole in the roof and drops a Dungeon Cell Key, attached to a corpse. The key reads “A mysterious knight,
without saying a word, shoved a corpse down into the cell, and on its person was this key. Who was this knight? And what
was his purpose? There may be no answer, but one must still forge ahead.” As advised by the key, the Chosen Undead
forges ahead, as they unlock the cell door and navigate the maze-like asylum. The Undead Asylum Second Floor East Key
reads “The Undead Asylum is a giant Undead prison, segmented by countless iron bars. Even if an Undead were to
escape from a cell, passage to the outside world would not be gained easily.” A vague hint at a greater threat within
the Asylum. Soon after, the mysterious knight is found dying, appearing to have been hurled through the roof. The figure
reveals himself to be Oscar, Knight of Astora. Oscar informs of a prophecy that
references an undead being, who will undertake a pilgrimage to ring the Bells of Awakening residing in Lordran, a
crusade that will take place nearing the collapse of the Age of Fire, and impact the state of the world.
Thou who art Undead, art chosen... In thine exodus from the Undead Asylum,
maketh pilgrimage to the land of Ancient Lords... When thou ringeth the Bell of Awakening,
he fate of the Undead thou shalt know..." Oscar travels from the far away land of
Astora, a region known for its brave knights, aesthetic landscapes, as well as its masterful craftsman, as evidenced by
Blacksmith Andre who also originated in Astora. Oscar had Journeyed to Lordran with the
goal of ringing the Bells of Awakening, however due to his current predicament, he chooses to delegate his mission to
the Chosen Undead, and provides them with an Estus Flask to aid in the journey. Estus Flasks are described as ‘Undead
treasure’ that can be filled with Estus at a bonfire, which in return heals any wounds that the Chosen Undead may have
suffered. Tasked with ringing the bells, the Chosen Undead leaves Oscar behind and continues to traverse the Undead
Asylum, until halted, by the presence of the Asylum Demon. The creation of this
demon is likely a side effect of the Witch of Izalith attempting to duplicate the First Flame, and was placed in the
Asylum to ensure that no undead is able to escape, a blockade of sorts for
those brave enough to leave their cell. the demon's presence makes sense of why Oscar was found dying, revealing that he
had fought the Demon and lost. The Demon’s Great Hammer states that the weapon is “Used by lesser demons at
North Undead Asylum.”, implying that the Asylum Demon is among the inferior ranks of demons, an indication of the
challenges yet to come. Defeating the Asylum Demon grants the Chosen Undead the Big Pilgrim’s Key, which allows them
to escape the prison and begin their quest. Exploring beyond the Asylum, leads to the discovery of a giant crow, one of
many ravens who are “said to have once been Firelink messengers, guiding the undead to the land of ancient gods.”
Fulfilling its duty, the crow carries the Chosen Undead to Lordran, delivering them to Firelink Shrine, a safe haven to all
travelers passing through. On arrival, the Chosen Undead is greeted by a ‘Crestfallen Warrior’, and it is made
apparent that this person is very well aware of the Undead Pilgrimage, likely to have assumed this task himself, at some
point in time. He informs the Chosen Undead that the first Bell of Awakening is located above the Undead Church,
whilst the second is deep in the ruins of Blighttown. His posture, coupled with his dialogue reveals that he had failed
to ring the Bells himself, and is now a demoralised soul lingering around Firelink, watching those who pass by, with
no real purpose. He is an example of a defeated soul, someone who couldn’t persist, and was beaten down by the
cruelty of the undead curse. A sign of his discouragement is shown when he states “there's no salvation here. You'd
have done better to rot in the Undead Asylum”. The warrior follows up by asking about another occupant of Firelink Shrine,
stating "Oh, have you seen that terribly morose lass? ...The Fire Keeper. She's stuck keeping
that bonfire lit. Sad, really. She's mute and bound to this forsaken
place. They probably cut her tongue out back in her village, so that she'd never say any god's name
in vain. How do these martyrs keep chugging along?"
The person in question is Anastacia of Astora, referred to as a Fire Keeper,
someone who is committed to maintaining their respective bonfire. The Fire Keeper Soul explains that “Each Fire Keeper is a
corporeal manifestation of her bonfire, and a draw for the humanity which is offered
to her. Her soul is gnawed by infinite humanity, and can boost the power of the precious Estus Flask.” Anastacia’s story
proceeds beyond her sworn duty, as on several occasions, she is referred to as impure, but the
reasoning for such claims are never revealed. It could be related to why her tongue had been severed, possibly due to
saying something that was perceived as impure, resulting in her punishment being the removal of her tongue. It appears
that she had suffered further punishment, as she sports a Blood-Stained Skirt which can later be acquired, the
description of the skirt reads “It is thought to have once been the white skirt of a maiden, but its true origin is
lost in patches of blood. Perhaps its former wearer was maimed to prevent escape?”. This statement reinforces that
Anastaica was at some point tortured, having her legs impaired, as to prevent her from walking, or rather escaping. What
could she have possibly done to justify such cruel punishment? Until this day, it remains a mystery.
Surveying the area surrounding Firelink Shrine, reveals a man named Petrus of Thorolund, an advocate for the Way of
White, a religious covenant dedicated to hunting down the undead and kindling bonfires, as a means of sustaining the
Age of Fire. The head bishop of the Way of White is described by the White Seance Ring as an “apostle to Allfather
Lloyd, uncle to Lord Gwyn.” This suggests that all father lloyd was likely associated with the Way of White,
although it's unclear if he was the founder of the organisation. Following Gwyn’s sacrifice, the Way of White was
formed in service of the gods, to ensure that the flame remains ignited, and the gods preserve their power. The covenant,
along with Petrus, both come from the land of Thorolund, which is known for its devotion towards Allfather Lloyd
and the former Lord of Sunlight, Gwyn. Petrus is later joined by Reah of Thorolund, alongside her companions
and bodyguards, Vince and Nico of thoroughland rhea is the daughter of the house of Thorolund, making her royalty,
but due to becoming undead, she was made to depart from her home and undergo the undead mission, to restore her humanity
once more. Reah and her companions had travelled to Lordran to seek the Rite of Kindling, described as a “sacred rite
passed down among clerics, but all Undead can imitate the process in the same manner that they restore their Hollowing
with humanity." Petrus is seen guiding Reah on her journey, and he appears to be friendly
and accommodating at first, however his presence permeates sinister overtones.
For now, in pursuit of the first Bell of Awakening, the Chosen Undead relocates to
the Undead Burg, where they are met with another creation of the Witch of Izalith, the Taurus Demon, a large minotaur-esque
creature, wielding a weapon carved from the bones of other demons. The Demon’s Greataxe also implies that Taurus demons
are lesser than their counterparts, indicating that once again greater threats are yet to be uncovered. The
Chosen Undead once more proves worthy, slaying the Taurus Demon and marching forward towards their objective. Within
the Undead Burg, various characters can be met, one being Solaire of Astora, the
Warrior of Sunlight. “I am Solaire of Astora, an adherent of the Lord of Sunlight.
Now that I am Undead, I have come to this great land, the birthplace of Lord Gwyn,
to seek my very own sun!" Solaire is on a mission, determined to
find his own sun. The Sunlight Talisman describes Solaire as having “unwavering faith”, and his Armour of the Sun is marked
with a “large holy symbol of the Sun, while powerless, was painted by Solaire himself.” Solaire states that he is an
adherent of the Lord of Sunlight, Lord Gwyn himself, making sense of his motive
to “find his very own sun”. Conscious of the world nearing the end of an era, as darkness diminishes the light, Solaire
aims to ally himself with other undead beings and offers to help if he was ever
to be called upon by the Chosen Undead. "The way I see it. Our fates appear to be
intertwined. Both undead, both imprisoned in the asylum, and now we both end up
here, in a land brimming with hollows. Could that really be mere chance?
So, what do you say? Why not help one another on this lonely journey? We are amidst strange beings in
a strange land. The flow of time itself is convoluted with heroes centuries old,
phasing in and out. The very fabric waivers, and relations shift and obscure.
There's no telling how much longer your world and mine will remain in contact."
With that said, Solaire and the Chosen Undead go their separate ways for now, recommencing on their quests. This leads
to the Lower Undead Burg, where a sorcerer by the name of Griggs of Vinheim can be found trapped in a room.
Vinheim was infamously known for its Dragon School, an organisation that specialises in teaching sorcery. It is
rumoured that the school’s name was inspired by none other than Seath the Scaleless. Freeing Griggs from the locked
room, reveals his armour to be the Black Sorcerer Set, which is described as an “Outfit worn by the secret sorcerers at
Vinheim Dragon School. They secretly work with sound-based spells, and never
reveal themselves.” This hints at Griggs being a prominent figure within the Vinheim Dragon School. Reaffirming this
notion is his possession of the Great Soul Arrows, which read; "At the Vinheim Dragon School, the acquisition of this
spell marks an apprentice's coronation as a sorcerer.” Griggs’ main objective is
to find his master, Big Hat Logan, and whether or not the two are reunited, is dependent on the Chosen Undead’s actions.
If all of his sorceries are purchased, Griggs will travel into dangerous territory in search of his master,
leading to him becoming hollow in Sen’s Fortress. Alternatively, disregarding his
sorceries, will lead to Griggs remaining in Firelink Shrine, awaiting the day his master returns. Back to the Lower Undead
Burg, persisting through the narrow alleyway, leads to the Capra Demon, another creature given life by the flame
of Izalith. This foe wields a Demon Great Machete and is accompanied by multiple
dogs, making them a nuisance to deal with, but nonetheless, the Chosen Undead overcomes the challenge and reaches the
location of the Undead Church. Roaming the environment can lead to the discovery of Knight Lautrec of Carim,
who can be seen locked in a cell on the top floor of the church. The people of Carim, similar to those of Thorolund,
are worshipers of gods, Lautrec himself being devoted to Fina, a goddess
described by the Ring of Favor and Protection, as having “fateful beauty”. The Favor Set states that Lautrec “believed
in the goddess's love for him.”, but was this love truly reciprocated? Or was Lautrec disillusioned by his love for
Fina. At this point, the Chosen Undead can choose to free Lautrec, resulting in them
being rewarded for their efforts, however, regardless of the Chosen Undead’s intervention, Knight Lautrec is able to
break free from the cell and can later be found in Firelink Shrine. Returning to Firelink at a later point
in time, it is revealed that the bonfire had faded, and the firekeeper Anastacia had been murdered by the Knight of Carim,
Lautrec. It is said that Lautrec had forsaken his duties as a knight, leading to his appearance in Lordran, however the
mission he states that he’s on remains speculatory. It can be surmised that his
mission was to track down Anastacia, and acquire her Fire Keeper Soul, which would explain his actions. Using the Black Eye
Orb, Lautrec can be invaded in Anor Londo, and found in possession of the Fire Keeper Soul, curiously yet to have
consumed it. Could it be that he had neglected to use it, or did he have other intentions with the soul? Nonetheless, the
Chosen Undead defeats Lautrec, and uses the Fire Keeper Soul to revive Anastacia,
now with her tongue restored, whilst simultaneously reigniting the Firelink bonfire. Reaching the rooftop, the Chosen
Undead slays the Bell Gargoyles, safeguarding the passage to the top of the church, and rings the Bell of
Awakening, successfully completing the first task of the Undead Pilgrimage. Descending the Undead Church will lead
to the discovery of Oswald of Carim, a pardoner, who provides absolution for those who have sinned. Oswald’s
riddle-like dialogue warns of Petrus of Thorolund, stating the following, “Hmm…
Hast thou acquittance with Petrus of Thorolund? I wager you two
hath likely found much in common. For is he not too drenched in sin…
Hah hah hah…”
This warning implies that Petrus is a sinner, foreshadows events that are yet to come, but for now, the Chosen Undead
knows not to trust Petrus, however cordial he may appear. Travelling through the Undead Parish,
leads to the uncovery of a dark and deadly forest, known as the Darkroot Garden, home to the Forest Hunter
covenant, and Alvina of the Darkroot Wood. I'm Alvina of the Darkroot Wood.
I command a clan of hunters who track down defilers of the forest graves. What
dost thou say? Wilt thou not join us?" Alvina, offers the Chosen Undead to join
her covenant, a group of hunters, working in service of protecting the forest from invaders, and ensuring that the graves
are not meddled with. It is likely that Alvina is in some way connected to Knight Artorias, and his companion Sif,
to what extent is unclear however. The legend of Artorias is revered by many, known as ‘the Abysswalker’, the saviour of
Oolacile, what’s the implication of Alvina referring to his legend as a mere fabrication? Although unknown for now,
later revelations will bring clarity to such accusations. Another figure who can be found within
the forest is Shiva of the East, a member of the Forest Hunter covenant, distrusted
by Alvina, as she believes that he withholds self-serving desires, beyond
the covenant's goals. Shiva had migrated from distant eastern lands, home to many
assassins and swordsmen. The Shadow Set reveals that some eastern armour is crafted with espionage in mind, for those
who intend to remain incognito, whilst the Eastern Set is crafted for more traditional battles, with excellent
defence against slash attacks. Shiva will only appear if the Chosen Undead agrees
to join the ranks of the Forest Hunters, and would make a return in Blighttown, offering many exotic weapons for those
willing to pay the price. Prior to this, deep within the Darkroot Garden, resides one of Seath the Scaleless’ many
creations, described as a being “imbued with a pure magic power.” The creation in
question, being the Moonlight Butterfly, a hostile creature with extremely strong magical abilities, logical considering
the creator is the ‘grandfather of Sorcery’, though the Moonlight Butterfly lacks in any physical prowess, and can be
defeated by the Chosen undead, with little effort. Treading along, the Chosen Undead crosses
paths with Laurentius of the Great Swamp, dealing with the adversity of being trapped in a barrel. If Laurentius were
to be freed, like many, he would later be found in Firelink Shrine. As evidenced by his name, Laurentius comes from the Great
Swamp, described by the Pyromancer Set as having “rugged grasslands and treacherous swamps”, a relentless place occupied by
many pyromancers. Those originating from the Great Swamp, often travel to Lordran,
as in most regions, pyromancers are frowned upon, Lordran however, respects those who indulge in Pyromancy, as afterall,
Lordran is home to the Godmother of Pyromancy, the Witch of Izalith. Before
reaching Blighttown, the Chosen Undead can confront the Gaping Dragon, located in a
large open chamber in the Depths. This adversary is described as a “distant,
deformed descendant of the everlasting dragons.” This is likely the result of the First Flame being ignited, turning the
dragon into an inferior being to those who came before. Once the fight is over, the Chosen Undead can head into
Blighttown, said to be the location of the second Bell of Awakening. Whilst traversing the dark and complex pathways
of the underground city, Quelana of Izalith can be found, unexpectedly retaining her human form, unlike her
mother and siblings, who to some extent, were transformed into demons. Prior to
the catastrophe that took place in Izalith, Quelana was an avid user of fire sorcery; she, along with her sisters are
recounted as “flame witches”. Following the consumption of Izalith, Quelana fled the
city, assuming that her mother and siblings had been killed, knowing little of the fact that they all survived,
Following her escape from Izalith, Quelana became the creator of pyromancy, possibly due to the trauma caused by the
creation of the Chaos Flame, opting to use a safer method instead. Quelana
shared her mastery of Pyromancy with her student Salaman, who then passed the knowledge on to the people of the Great
Swamp, explaining why many pyromancers originate from there. In a final plea to
the Chosen Undead, Quelana demands that they free the consumed souls of her mother and siblings, by slaying what
remains of their corrupted bodies, blissfully unaware that although formed into demons, their consciousness remains
intact, and not in need of salvation. If the Chosen Undead chooses to acquire pyromancies from Quelana, and make a
return to Firelink Shrine, Laurentius will question the Chosen Undead, asking them where they had obtained such power. If
the answer is kept a secret, Laurentius will remain in Firelink, however if informed, he will relocate to the
Blighttown Swamp, where the daughter resides, in search of the power obtained by the Chosen Undead. Alas, Laurentius
would later be seen wandering Blighttown as a hollow, revealing that he had failed on his quest of obtaining further power, and
had lost his sanity in the process. This sets in motion the Chosen Undead’s meeting with the Chaos Witch Quelaag. The
Soul of Quelaag confirms that she was “once daughter of the Witch of Izalith, but now a chaos demon.”, a victim to the
manufactured flame that devoured Izalith. Failing to escape the city in time, she
became corrupted by the fire, mutating into a part spider, part human creature.
Although fused with demons, Quelaag and her young sister, the Fair Lady managed
to keep their sanity intact. When relocating from their home, Quelaag and the Fair Lady took a group of their
servants with them. The servants were unfortunate to suffer from a parasitic disease, becoming afflicted with an
unknown blight, resulting in their whole bodies becoming infested by worms. If killed, the Egg Burdened will not drop
souls, the worms within them will do so instead, indicating that the parasites had devoured the souls of the host. In an
act of purity, the Fair Lady, despite Quelaag’s disapproval, chose to suck out the blight pus from her servants,
sacrificing her health and sight, in exchange of saving them. One of the servants named Eingyi, can be found in
Quelaag’s Domain, stating the following, “...There is nothing to say to you... Except...
If you lay a hand on the Fair Lady, you should be prepared to face my wrath."
This statement conveys the adoration the servants felt towards the Fair Lady, in response to the sacrifice she made for
their sake. Quelaag now remains in Blighttown in protection of her younger sister, who became weakened and blind,
making her unable to travel. With her sister’s condition worsening, Quelaag has no choice but to accompany her at
all times, to ensure that the Fair Lady is not to be harmed by anyone. In light of this knowledge, the battle with the
Chaos Witch is rather bittersweet, however, it must be fought, if the Chosen
Undead is to reach the second Bell of Awakening. Transitioning to the Fair Lady, she can be found hidden behind an
illusionary wall following the fight, likely Quelaag's attempt of shielding her from harm. The Fair Lady acts as a
fire keeper to the bonfire in the area but is unable to communicate with the Chosen Undead, unless they equip the Old
Witch’s Ring. Equipping the ring will lead the Fair Lady to believe that the Chosen Undead, is in fact her sister
Quelaag, urging her to say the following, Quelaag? Please, sister,
do not cry. I'm happy, really.
I have you, don't I?"
Believing that her sister Quelaag stands before her, the Fair Lady reassures her not to cry, expressing that she is happy,
although in reality, she suffers day by day, endlessly living in anguish since
her sacrifice. Interestingly, she attempts to comfort herself when stating ‘I have
you, don’t I?’ trusting that her sister remains by her side during her times of need, yet the quiver in her voice
questions the very words she speaks, as she slowly begins to lose her faith in her own self, knowing deep down that her
sister is gone. One day, the Fair Lady’s corpse would be discovered by an Ashen One, hidden behind the veil of an
illusionary wall. Clasping the pyromancy tome of her sister, Quelana.
A tale as tragic as the Fair Ladys’, is only matched by none other than her own brother, Ceaseless Discharge, the youngest
child and only son of the Witch of Izalith. Born with sores inflamed by lava, the child was raised in hardship,
invoking his sisters to enchant a ring that would ease his pain. The Orange Charred Ring reads, “Since his sores were
inflamed by lava from birth, his witch sisters gave him this special ring.”
Worsening his already dire existence, the duplication of the first flame, resulted in him morphing into a large demonic
creature, making him the first ever Demon to come to life. Ceaseless now lingers in
the Demon Ruins, watching over the corpse of his supposedly deceased sister Quelana, who we now know is alive. The
corpse is accompanied by Quelana’s Gold- Hemmed Black Set, a uniform said to have been worn since before the Age of Fire.
When traversing the ruins, Ceaseless does not become hostile towards the Chosen Undead, that is until they decide to loot
the clothing of his beloved sister. His sister's clothes is all that is left for him to remember her by, his only source
of comfort in a life of solitude, opting to believe that his family still watches
over him till this day. Freeing him from this pitiful existence, Ceaseless Discharge is laid to rest, after
suffering for a thousand years, unaware that his sister was still alive.
Finally, the Chosen Undead reaches their destination, ringing the second Bell of Awakening, and causing the gates of Sen’s
Fortress to open, unlocking the pathway to the land of ancient gods. If the Chosen Undead is to visit the fortress
prior to ringing the bells, the gate would be sealed closed, and an undead adventurer would be helplessly sat
outside, unable to reach Anor Londo. The adventurer is called Siegmeyer of Catarina,
travelling from a land celebrated for its cheerful residents and festivity. However,
the honourable knights of Catarina aren’t always given their fair dues, as they are described as being “often
ridiculed for their onion-like shape, infuriating the proud knights.” With the
gates opened, the Chosen Undead can commence on their journey, encountering various challenges every step of the way.
The stone fort is said to have been built as a proving ground, a way of testing those who deem themselves worthy
of setting foot into Anor Londo. Making their way through Sen's Fortress,
the Chosen Undead is challenged by armed guards resembling serpents, Titanite Demons,
a diverse range of traps, and many other environmental hazards. Delving deeper into the fortress, the Chosen Undead is
reunited with Siegmeyer, who is once again halted on his adventure, unable to overcome one of the many traps built
within the confines of the stronghold. Akin to prior events, it is up to the Chosen Undead to overcome the challenge,
enabling them to solve the puzzle-like trap and pave the way for Siegmeyer’s entrance into Anor Londo. Whilst
manoeuvring the iron ball trap mechanism, the Chosen Undead can manipulate it to destroy a nearby wall, uncovering the
whereabouts of Big Hat Logan. He is found locked in a cage, likely to have been caught by one of the traps.
Rescuing Logan leads to him showing gratitude towards the Chosen Undead and retreating to Firelink Shrine, where he
accompanies Griggs of Vinheim, the sorcerer previously freed from Lower Undead Burg. Logan was a renowned
sorcerer, and a royal member of the Vinheim Dragon School. The description of the Soul Spear
credits Logan as its creator, and details that it’s “A symbol of Logan's strength,
the soul spear is referenced repeatedly in the legends and is said to have been on par with Lord Gwyn's lightning.” This
puts into perspective the extent of the power that Big Hat Logan encompasses. Although extremely capable, Logan does
not flaunt his stature, as he is still seen wearing his worn out Sage Robe, from his apprentice days at the Dragon School.
Little more is known about Logan, although a conversation with a blacksmith named Rickert of Vinheim
suggests that he has been undead for over a century, could this be the very reason Logan departed from Vinheim?
“Old Big Hat? Of course I've heard of him. Who hasn't in Vinheim?
He was a royal member of Dragon School, until he turned Undead.
I hear he was quite the character... Only, that was a hundred years ago.”
The final deterrent to those seeking access to Anor Londo is the Iron Golem, a guardian of Sen’s Fortress, referenced
as a “slayer of heroes who ventured forth to Anor Londo.” The Core of an Iron Golem
is described as “Originally a bone of an everlasting dragon.”, explaining the durability of this adversary. Having said
that, there was one warrior who was able to defeat this foe, Black Iron Tarkus, a
knight of Berenike. The Black Iron Set informs that Tarkus is “a knight known
for his great strength”. This stands true for all knights of Berenike, as they wore heavy armour, wielded Greatswords, and were
praised for their mighty vigour. Sad to say, the majority of the knights became undead, and ventured to Lordran to find a
olution to their predicament. One at a time, the knights began to turn hollow, making them a threat to all undead
beings in Lordran. Black Iron Tarkus was an exception to this fact, resulting in
him being one of the only knights to survive past Sen’s Fortress, in his quest to cure the Undead Curse. In a display of
virtue, Tarkus offers himself up to those who need assistance in defeating the Iron Golem, granting the Chosen Undead
the ability to summon him for the fight if need be. Slaying the Iron Golem marks the end of the final challenge, giving
the Chosen Undead access to the land of the gods, home to the Lordvessel that would decide the fate of the world.
Chapter IV: A Grand Illusion
Anor Londo was abandoned by many since the absence of Gwyn, who left the city behind
over a thousand years ago, yet the kingdom appears to have maintained its beauty, as well as the preservation of
its marvel structure, a peculiar surprise to say the least, perhaps this is something to be investigated at a later
point. Exploring the ancient land reveals the remaining guardians of Anor Londo, the Sentinels, and their higher ranking
counterparts, the Royal Sentinels, who will become hostile if the Chosen Undead versteps their boundaries. In addition,
Batwing Demons are present throughout the land, the same Demons that provide the Chosen Undead passage into the city,
perhaps this is the extent of their duties, if so, what’s the reason for their hostility? It’s possible that there are
limits to where foreign beings are permitted to roam. The Batwing Demons are described as unique Chaos demons, as
unlike others, they are imbued with lightning. Their presence in Anor Londo could also be an indication of Gwyn's
alliance with the demon race. Also guarding Anor Londo are the Silver Knights, who as previously mentioned, were
ordered to stay behind by Gwyn, in service of protecting their goddess Gwynevere. Upon closer inspection, it is
noticeable that Anor Londo’s architecture is built with consideration for both gods and humans, as evident with
the various sizes of appliances, pathways, stairs, doors and even lifts. This
indicates that the Capital was more accommodating than what was previously thought, and was likely home to both gods
and humans. Approaching a nearby bonfire, leads to the introduction to the Darkmoon
Knightess, a gatekeeper and guide to outside travellers. At this moment,
ittle is known about the Knightess, besides the fact that she is a Fire Keeper and possibly originated from Carim, this
can be speculated based on her weapon of choice being a Parrying Dagger, “A favorite of the knights of Carim, who
are famous for fighting without a shield.” Surveying the area, the corpse of Black Iron Tarkus, the honourable knight of
Berenike, can be found within the giant hall of the Painting Guardians, likely to have fallen off the narrow rafters, if
not through one of the windows leading to the hall, a pitiful end, to an otherwise decorated knight. If not for
the involvement of the Chosen Undead, another knight would have met their fate in Anor Londo, as Siegmeyer, the onion knight
previously encountered, is now in need of rescuing from imminent death. Siegmeyer can be found trapped in a room, with a
collective of Silver Knights awaiting his exit. The Chosen Undead deals with the Silver Knights, clearing the way for
Siegmeyer to continue on his journey. Interestingly, before departing, Siegmeyer
says “Next time, give me a chance to come up with a plan.” The slight aggression hints at his frustration with being
saved, the prideful knight that he is, would rather use his resolve to overcome an obstacle, or at least die trying, than
to be constantly indebted to the Chosen Undead. Within a Giant Cathedral in Anor
Londo, reside the greatest threat yet to be faced, Dragon Slayer Ornstein, and
Executioner Smough. As we already know, Ornstein was once a member of the Four Knights of Gwyn, after the gods abandoned
Anor Londo, Ornstein, alongside Smough, remained stationed to guard its cathedral, and with it, the princess of
sunlight Gwynevere. Executioner Smough desired to be a member of Gwyn’s Knights,
however he was rejected due to his unhinged behaviour and maniacal joy in being an executioner. Smough's Hammer
describes him as such; “Smough loved his work, and ground the bones of his victims into
his own feed, ruining his hopes of being ranked with the Four Knights.” The implication that Smough possessed
cannibalistic tendencies likely led to him being regarded as nothing more than a savage, unworthy of being amongst
Gwyns ranked knights. With his wild nature, It is no surprise that if
Ornstein is to be defeated first in the fight, Smough crushes his body to absorb his power, with little respect shown to
his compadre. If the roles were to be reversed, Ornstein would place his hand on Smough’s body, as a gesture of respect,
before absorbing his power, a clear difference in their moral disposition.
Upon defeating the pair, princess Gwynevere reveals herself, claiming that the Chosen Undead’s duty is to succeed
her father Gwyn, and inherit the fire of their world. She pleads that they must end the eternal twilight, as the world
without fire, shall be a frigid and frightful Dark. In addition to this, Gwynevere provides the Chosen Undead
with a Lordvessel, a means to link the flame and prolong the Age of Fire. The Lordvessel is “bestowed upon the Chosen
Undead who is destined to succeed Lord Gwyn. To open the final door, place this
vessel on the Firelink Altar, and fill it with powerful souls.” These instructions suggest that the Chosen Undead must
acquire the soul of Gravelord Nito, and The Bed of Chaos, as well as the souls of Seath the Scaleless and the Four Kings, which
previously belonged to Gwyn, before he fragmented his Soul and gifted it to them. Placing the Four Souls on the altar,
will grant access to the Kiln of the First Flame, where the fate of the world will be decided.
If the Chosen Undead was to be oblivious to the synthetic behaviour of Gwynevere, or as previously mentioned, the unnatural
preservation of Anor Londo for the past millennia, they would leave the capital in pursuit of the required Lord Souls.
However, with further investigation, it is revealed that the entire construction of Anor Londo, along with Princess Gwynevere
herself, is naught but a grand illusion, a facade orchestrated by none other than
Dark Sun Gwyndolin, the last born of Lord Gwyn. Gwyndolin is the last remaining god,
and protector of the forsaken city of Anor Londo. The Moonlight Robe explains
that Gwyndolin was raised as a daughter, due to the power of the moon being strong within him. With his father being
the Lord of Sunlight, he likely viewed Gwyndolin, or rather all who were affiliated with the moon’s power, as
inferior, resulting in Gwyndolin being treated less than adequately by his father.
It is probable that the moon is also a reminder of the inevitable age of darkness, the bane of Gwyn’s existence.
Gwyndolin now leads the Blade of the Darkmoon Covenant, which was created to “punish the guilt-soaked offenders of the
Gods“; upon punishing the offenders, members of the covenant would take the victims ear as “proof of their conquest"
and provide it to Gwyndolin in exchange for having their rank increased, leaving the earless corpses as “a warning to
others, inspiring both fear and respect for the Gods. The Darkmoon Blade Covenant Ring states
“Gwyndolin, all too aware of his repulsive, frail appearance, created the illusion of
a sister Gwynevere, who helps him guard over Anor Londo. An unmasking of these
deities would be tantamount to blasphemy.” To pull back the veil placed upon Anor
Londo, one must destroy the illusion of Gwynevere, resulting in the city darkening,
and Darkmoon Soldiers being deployed by Gwyndolin to hunt down the Chosen Undead.
Alternatively, the illusion can be maintained, using this as an opportunity to deceive Gwyndolin, posing as an
adherent who wishes to join the Blade of the Darkmoon Covenant. To achieve this,
one must acquire the Darkmoon Seance Ring. which is outlined as a ring that is “granted to adherents of Gwyndolin”. Once
the ring is equipped, the Chosen Undead is able to approach Gwyndolin’s sanctum within the Darkmoon Tomb, under the guise
of an ally, only to betray Gwyndolin, by traversing through the fog and slaying the last remaining deity in Anor Londo.
Or at least that’s what the Chosen Undead is led to believe. As many years later, it is revealed that Gwyndolin was
devoured by Saint Aldrich of the Deep. The master of illusions, ironically turned out to be no more than an
illusion himself. Defeating Gwyndolin, will result in the Darkmoon Knightess becoming hostile,
forcing the Chosen Undead's hand in engaging the Firekeeper. The Brass Set explains the sudden change of alliance
from the Knightess, expressing that “After becoming undead, she visited the Dark Sun
Gwyndolin at the Mausoleum of the Spiral Depths, became a Blade of the Darkmoon, and assumed the flame-keeping duty. She
received this armor, which hides her hideous form and helps her hunt the guilty.” In her eyes, the Chosen Undead is
the guilty, committing the worst sin imaginable, by way of slaughtering her god, which she had placed all her faith
in. Becoming aware of the Illusion placed on Anor Londo, it is logical to begin
questioning all that had taken place this far, to what extent had reality been altered in favour of displaying a
model city? Ornstein’s Armour originally states that he had remained in the Grand Cathedral. However, many years later
studying the Dragonslayer Set, will bring light to the possibility that the Ornstein faced in Anor Londo, is in fact
a creation of Gwyndolin, another pawn within the grand illusion. The Dragonslayer Set reads “In the dragonless age,
this knight, who long guarded the ruined cathedral, left the land in search of the nameless king.” Smough may have also been an
illusion, reinforcing this theory is the description of Smough’s Armor, which references Smough as an executioner, however
many years later, Smough’s Armor would refer to him as the “the last knight to stand in defence of the ruined cathedral”.
How could he have risen to the rank of knight if the Chosen Undead had killed him in Anor Londo. Perhaps soon after
Ornstein left the cathedral, the real Smough followed suit, and at some point became worthy of the rank of Knight.
The mystery remains to be, what had happened to the real Ornstein, if the one encountered is an imitation. One theory
suggests that following Gwyn’s sacrifice, Ornstein departed from the ruined cathedral to reunite with his former
master, the Nameless King. This is probable, as it is known that the Nameless King had trained the Four
Knights of Gwyn, prior to being banished for his betrayal of the gods. This is noticeable when comparing the combat
styles of Ornstein and the Nameless King, both opting to use similar weaponry, movesets and miracles. However, the fact
that his armour can be discovered in Archdragon Peak, suggests an untimely death, birthing a second theory that
proposes that Ornstein had left the cathedral to hunt down the Nameless King, only to be slain by him instead.
Regardless of whether Ornstein’s intentions were to hunt down the Nameless King, or join him, the expedition
most likely resulted in his death. Perhaps the Nameless King had turned hollow, and could no longer identify the
difference between friend and foe. To think that after all the years passed, Gwyn’s first born still haunts the
lives of those he betrayed, leading to Ornstein choosing to end a chapter of his life that had long been left
unfinished. Remnants of the Nameless King still exist in Lordran until this day, as
within the very cathedral that Ornstein was guarding, there are alcoves of three statues, two of them depicting Gwyn,
and his daughter Gwynevere, with the third being hollow. The Sunlight Altar, although destroyed,
depicts the fallen God of War. No wonder the wyvern safeguards the bridge leading to the altar. A reminder of the firstborn
son of Gwyn, a warrior that once belonged amongst royalty, still worshipped by
those who believed in him.
Amidst the wealth of history discovered in Anor Londo, also lies a world concealed from all life, the Painted
World of Ariamis, placed amidst the Painting Guardians, who have “guarded the
Great Paintings of Ariamis for ages, passing their duty down through the generations, but the reason for doing so
passed from all memory long ago.” The Painted World was created as a refuge for the lost souls of various creatures.
Since the inception of the undead curse, countless beings had either hollowed, or lost their purpose in life. With their
souls going astray, they aimlessly wandered the lands in hopes of finding guidance.
Over time, word spread of a Painted World that welcomes all beings without a home, and so the Painted World became
popular amongst abandoned souls. Some believe that the true purpose of the world was to hide the existence of
Crossbreed Priscilla, a being neither god nor human. Priscilla is described as a
“Dragon Crossbreed”, a bastard child of Seath the Scaleless, who had been trapped in the Painted World. Priscilla wields a
Lifehunt Scythe, a weapon that cultivated enough power to warrant the fear of the gods. The Scythe could not be
wielded by all beings, as “in the hands of a mortal, its power will turn upon its wielder.” The weapon inflicted bleed onto
those who carry it, making it accessible only to beings powerful enough to bear that burden.
For the Chosen Undead to access the Painted World, they would have to acquire a Peculiar Doll, likely the only
remaining item to connect Priscilla to the real world. The doll reads; “There once
was an abomination who had no place in this world. She clutched this doll tightly, and eventually was drawn into a
cold and lonely painted world.” To obtain the doll, the Chosen Undead must return
to where their pilgrimage began, the Northern Undead Asylum, only now hosting a Stray Demon since the previous
guardian had been slaughtered. Moving forward, the Chosen Undead encounters an old ally, Oscar, Knight of Astora, the
honourable warrior who rescued the Chosen Undead and set them off on their journey.
Sadly, Oscar is no longer that person, as the despair of being unable to escape
the asylum, led to Oscar losing his sanity, unable to overcome the very first
obstacle he encountered, Oscar had lost all sense of self, and consequently,
turned hollow. The Chosen Undead is once again placed in a position, where he must
free a soul trapped in a hollow body. Following this demoralising encounter,
the Chosen Undead acquires the Peculiar Doll, now able to access the Painted World of Ariamis.
The Painted World is undoubtedly associated with Velka, Goddess of Sin. She
is described as a rogue god, whose duty was to define sin and administer punishment accordingly. She does however
offer absolution through her pardoners, one being Osward of Carim, who the Chosen
Undead had already crossed paths with. Within the Painted World, many items attributed to the Goddess of sin can be
found. one being the Black Cleric Robe, escribed as a “Robe worn by pardoners
serving Velka, the Goddess of Sin.” The Clerics also used Velka’s Rapier,
further linking them to the goddess. The Ring of Sacrifice references a “sacrificial rite of Velka”, showing the
extent of the influence she had on her followers. The influence extended beyond those who worshipped her, as the Vow of
Silence explains that Velka “is versed in arts both new and old, and is considered
to have a great range of influence even as gods are concerned." Whilst exploring the Painted World, Crow
Demons can be seen surrounding a Dark Ember, located on a petrified corpse of a
blacksmith. Dark Embers are used to ascend Occult weapons. The fact that crows are a symbol of Velka, coupled with
the knowledge that Velka’s Rapier is imbued with Occult power, it is highly possible that Velka was to some degree
involved with the Occult Rebellion. Her betrayal of the gods could be why she’s referred to as a rogue deity. To prevent
further rebellions against the gods, at a point in time, “The church long hid the forbidden black ember, and no living
blacksmith knows of it." Reaching the finale of the Painted World, the Chosen Undead approaches Crossbreed
Priscilla, residing in an arena at the end of a partially destroyed bridge. Not knowing the trespasser's intentions, she
remains non-hostile, and offers the Chosen Undead a chance to leave her world, to avoid conflict.
“Who art thou? One of us, thou art not. If thou hast misstepped into this world,
plunge down from the plank, and hurry home. If thou seekest I, thine desires shall be
requited not. Thou must returneth whence thou came. This land is peaceful, its
inhabitants kind, but thou dost not belong. I beg of thee,
plunge down from the plank, and hurry home." Ignorant to what has become of the
Painted World, she pleads that “This land is peaceful, its inhabitants kind”,
contradicting the resident’s actions towards the Chosen Undead, perhaps the residents are peaceful, but see the
outsider as a threat, and so they collectively fight to protect Priscilla, by attacking the Chosen Undead at every
opportunity. Although Priscilla had been living in solitude for centuries, confining herself to the tower, her
intentions remain pure, as in her eyes, her world still serves the purpose it
had initially set out to fulfil. It is now up to the Chosen Undead, do they put an end to the Painted World that had
long protected those who were cast out? Or leave the residents to exist in peace, as what resides in the painting is no
business of the undead anyway. “Why could thou not let us be? Didst thou
not see why Ariamis created this world?”
In the end, the world of Ariamis began to rot, and another painter was chosen to
create a new world in place of the rotten one, all the residents of the old world succumbed to their death, likely
Priscilla too. What had become of Ariamis remains unknown, as he may have rotted
away along with the very world he painted.
Chapter V: The Lordvessel
Now that the Lordvessel has been obtained, the Chosen Undead can continue their journey. In Firelink Shrine,
a Primordial Serpent named Kingseeker Frampt appears, who reveals the following:
“As Kingseeker, I shall now instruct you, the Lord's successor, in your next task.
To achieve your fate, commensurate to the great soul of Gwyn.
Scarce few possess such brilliant souls. Gravelord Nito,
the Witch of Izalith, the Four Kings of New Londo, who inherited the shards of Gwyn's soul...
and Lord Gwyn's former confidant, Seath the Scaleless.
All of their souls are required to satiate the Lordvessel.”
Here we learn that the Lordvessel must be utilised in order to link the fire. Frampt’s goal is to seek a king, someone
who will link the flame and extend the Age of Fire, in the name of Gwyn. However, there is another path. Darkstalker Kaathe,
also requires a lord vessel and the Chosen Undead’s help, but not to link the fire, but to let the flame fade instead.
At first glance it appears that Frampt represents the light, the fire and the gods, whereas Kaathe symbolises the dark,
humanity, and a plan to end the fading age of gods. The serpents are inexplicably linked to the conclusion of
the Chosen Undead’s fate. Obtain a soul of Lords is no easy task, as the Chosen Undead will have to slay the
very beings that overthrew the everlasting dragons, as well as venture into the abyss itself. Seath, the Scaleless
resides in the Duke’s Archives, a landmark situated high above. Its elevated position can be seen from the
Undead Parish. The Duke’s Archives, as the name suggests, is a large library, housing
many books and artefacts. A paradise for scholar like Seath, in his never-ending hunt for immortality. When the Chosen Undead
encounters the pale dragon for the first time, he appears to be invincible, immune to all forms of offence.
Suggesting he had discovered the secret to immortality. As a result, the Chosen Undead falls, and wakes up in a cell. Here
lies the abducted victims of Seath’s experiments. The Six-Eyed Channelers would aid Seath in abducting residents
of Lordran, forcing them to become test subjects. Considering Seath was blind, the
Channeler’s helms were adorned with “...six eyes arranged in two vertical columns'' as
this compensated “for Seath's lack of sight.” In order to keep the abductees from leaving, the Man Serpents were
stationed as guards. In addition, the archives were converted into a prison, as confirmed by the Archive Tower Cell Key
The Archive Tower, once a trove of precious tomes and letters, became a prison after the onset of Seath's
madness.” Interesting that Seath had lost his sanity after discovering immortality.
Furthermore, the Archive Giant Cell Key states “The giant cell once imprisoned countless maidens, but is now empty, save
for a few key persons.” The maidens referred to here are most likely, the Pisacas.
Although several of the Pisacas are hostile, two can be found, weeping in a corner, who will only retaliate when
harmed. When slain, these two will drop the miracles Soothing Sunlight and Bountiful Sunlight. According to the
description of the items, these were “The miracles of Gwynevere”, suggesting that the Pisacas were once maidens to the
daughter of Gwyn. This also explains why a Six-Eyed Channeler is stationed in the Undead Parish, as many maidens would
pass through the church. Big Hat Logan, appears to be amongst the prisoners of the archive. First he was caught in Sen’s
Fortress, and it appears he has been captured once again. Once freed, Logan will move deeper into the library. Logan
comments on the cruel experiments conducted by Seath, stating that all progress demands sacrifice, appearing to
be in support of his actions, if the ends justify the means. He will now sell crystal sorceries to the Chosen Undead,
boosted sorceries created with his newfound knowledge. He then unveils the secret to Seath’s immortality
“Ah, the secret of Seath's immortality?
If you have fought him, and were imprisoned, you must know that Seath is a true
Undead, different from ourselves. His wounds close promptly,
and no mortal blow affects him, granting true insulation from death.
It is an effect of the Primordial Crystal, a sacred treasure pillaged by Seath when
he turned upon the ancient dragons. So, only by destroying the Primordial
Crystal can you so much as scratch his hide. And it so happens,
the Primordial Crystal is in the inner garden of these very archives,
the Crystal Forest.” Should the Chosen Undead acquire all of the sorceries on offer, Big Hat Logan
will say the following “...Who are you... Stay clear...stay clear of my work...
Curses upon you! ...How dare you disturb me!” Whatever Logan learned in the Duke’s
Archives, drove him mad, as the knowledge he gained was too much to bear. He then navigates back to the first area, where
Seath was encountered. Here it appears that Logan has lost his sanity, stripped of his clothing and fighting like a
mad man. It should be noted that Logan is not hollow here, but instead has actually lost his sanity. Just as Seath went mad
after obtaining immortality, so did Big Hat Logan, only his pursuit was for sorcery and spells. A woeful end to the
famous sorcerer. Leaving the archives behind, the Chosen Undead navigates through a small crystal forest. Here, we
see crystal golems scattered around the area. One of the golems in particular is golden in colour, identical to another in
Darkroot Basin. Once killed, a knight in a set of Catarina armour appears and
states: “It was you who rescued me? Why, thank you.
Oh! Have you seen my father? You wouldn't miss him. A suit of armour, just like mine?”
If the Chosen Undead says “Yes” she will say the following: "Thank goodness! I knew he was here
somewhere. Well then, now I must find him. Thanks again, truly.
Sieglinde, is in pursuit of her father Siegmeyer. Why she is doing this, we cannot
know at this time. Now in the Crystal Caves, the Chosen Undead encounters Moonlight Butterflies and more Crystal
Golems. It is worth noting that these creations of Seath can also be found in Darkroot Basin. This is due to his
interest towards Oolacile Sorcery, as Oolacile became Darkroot Basin over time. Eventually, the Chosen Undead confronts
Seath the Scaleless. Only this time it appears that the Chosen Undead, has stumbled across something of importance
to Seath, so valuable is this item that Seath descends into the caves to protect
it. In this room, lies the Primordial Crystal, the secret of Seath’s immortality. This object granted him the
long life he desired. He was envious of the other dragons and their everlasting lifespan, however with this crystal, he
could replicate the immortality, provided by the stone dragon scales. Using the knowledge obtained from Big Hat Logan,
the Chosen Undead shatters the primordial crystal, turning Seath into a mortal. Should the Chosen Undead sever
the tale of the beast, the Moonlight Greatsword will fall into their possession. The description of the sword
notes that “Seath is the grandfather of sorcery” making it clear as to why Big
Hat Logan had a particular interest in Seath. It is also worth mentioning, that sorceries such as the Soul Arrow spell,
are particularly effective against the stone scales of dragons, hinting that Seath pioneered sorcery, to aid in the
slaughter of his own kind. No wonder the scholar sorcerers of Vinheim named their school of sorcery, the
Vinheim Dragon School. The Chosen Undead then slays the pale dragon, and obtains the Bequeathed Lord Soul Shard
given to him by Gwyn. We now move to New Londo Ruins, to acquire the next Lord Soul. Before
crossing the bridge, a hollow in chainmail armour can be seen. This hollow is the Crestfallen Warrior from Firelink
Shrine. He left the shrine, as he was sick of the smell produced by the serpent Frampt. It seems that during his
investigation, to uncover the source of the smell, he turned hollow. Ironic, that once he had somewhat a purpose, he lost
his will to live. Moreover, several hollows can be seen worshipping something. Upon closer inspection, we can see that
they are kneeling before the sunlight, emanating from a small crevice above. Potentially signifying their devotion to
the light, to Lord Gwyn. Exploring deeper in New Londo Ruins, the Chosen Undead
discovers ghosts haunting the area. These ghosts can only be engaged when consuming a Transient Curse. As “The only
way to fight back against ghosts, who are ursed beings, is to become cursed” yourself. Some of these ghosts can be
seen holding babies, and can cast lightning, miracles similar to Gwyn’s bolts. Eventually, the Chosen Undead will
come across a sealer known as Ingward. He states “New Londo was sacrificed
to contain the Darkwraiths. Mark my words. The Darkwraiths are the
enemies of man, and any living thing that has a soul. They were never meant to roam again.
The Four Kings slumber in the deepest chamber of the ruins.
Use this key to break the seal and open the floodgates. ...Oh and do not
forget... The Darkwraiths reside in a dark void called the Abyss.
But the Abyss is no place for ordinary mortals. Although
long ago, the knight Artorias traversed the Abyss.
If you can find him, and learn from him, the Abyss may prove surmountable.”
Ingward seems to think that Artorias is alive, a testament to how his true fate was erased from history. His dialogue
also brings much needed clarity to the state of New Londo. But what exactly caused the city, and its residents to
descend into the dark, Ingward answers this also “When an evil serpent dangled
the art of life drain before them, they were unable to resist
and became pawns of evil”. Inspired by Anor Londo, this city was a
home for the undead. Interestingly, the inhabitants of the city appear to respect the Goddess of Sin, Velka, as seen
with the statues and items found throughout the ruins. Strange, that the Four Kings may have potentially
worshipped Velka, a goddess who was shunned by the other gods, whose mention was mostly confined to the Painted World.
Nevertheless, the city was ruled by the Four Kings who fell to the dark. It seems that the Four Kings were accepting of
the power, bestowed upon them by Gwyn. Gwyn, most likely did not provide the Four Kings a piece of the lord soul,
out of generosity, but as a means to turn them to his side. Perhaps he knew of the rebellion brewing, how the Four Kings may
have wanted to rid the world of gods by utilising the dark. Luckily, it was possible to flood New Londo entirely,
should an uprising need to be quelled. Or perhaps it wasn’t luck at all, and Gwyn had this purposely installed? It is
doubtful that New Londo was created without Gwyn’s consent, it was inspired by his city after all. Despite having
received a Bequeathed Lord Soul Shard, the kings were still tempted by the power of the dark. The spread of the dark,
gave rise to the Darkwraiths, warriors who were once the knights of the Four Kings. Their armour appears to have crow
feathers interwoven, another symbol of Velka. As always, when the abyss and the dark are mentioned, Kaathe is never far
behind. The Four Kings and their knights, were enticed by the words of the Darkstalker, how could they not be? After
all, New Londo was a city of humans living under the gods, in an age which was rightfully theirs.
Harnessing the power of the Dark Soul, the Darkwraiths used the Life Drain ability, to consume humanity from their
enemies. Every Darkwraith is part of a covenant of the same name, led by none other than the Darkstalker, Kaathe. The
power of Life Drain was feared by the gods, as evidenced by Crossbreed riscilla, who was locked away in the
Painted World. This ability was taught to the Darkwraiths, and the Four Kings by Kaathe. It is possible that he learnt this
power from Priscilla. Posing a significant threat, Ingward and the other sealers flooded New Londo Ruins, killing
everyone within, including civilians. The aim was to submerge the Darkwraiths and the Four Kings under water, as they were
too dangerous to confront. Thousands of corpses can be seen throughout the haunted ruins, indicating the devastation
that took place. The Mask of the Sealer states: “Mask of the sorcerers who flooded New Londo to seal away the Darkwraiths,
and the Four Kings who descended into Dark. It symbolizes their resolve to keep the seal shut forever and their
atonement for all who were sacrificed, but two of the three forsook New Londo upon tiring of their duty.” Interestingly,
it appears that there were two additional sealers who abandoned their duties. One’s attire can be found in
Blighttown, the other can be seen accompanying Lautrec in Anor Londo. The abandonment of their mask, signifying
their desertion. Ingward will then provide the Chosen Undead with the Key to the Seal. To open the floodgates and
drain the city, gaining access to the Four Kings. The key states “The Sealers flooded New Londo to banish the Darkwraiths
and the Four Kings. The agonizing decision was made with the realization that countless lives, and the robust
culture of the city, would be lost. The victims now roam the ruins as ghosts.” With the Covenant of Artorias in hand,
the Chosen Undead descends into the abyss, a familiar place. Here the Chosen Undead comes face to face with the Four
Kings, and defeats them. The once noble kings of New Londo, are nothing but a memory. With the Four Kings bested, Kaathe
makes an appearance for the first time. He departs some wisdom, unto the Chosen Undead:
"I can guide thee, and illuminate the truth.
Undead Warrior, conqueror of the Four Kings; is this not your wish?
To know the truth of men, and the Undead? The truth I shall share, without
sentiment. After the advent of Fire, the ancient Lords found the three souls.
But your progenitor found a fourth, unique soul.
The Dark Soul. Your ancestor claimed the Dark Soul,
and waited for Fire to subside. And soon, the flames did fade,
and only Dark remained. Thus began the age of men,
the Age of Dark. However... Lord Gwyn trembled at the Dark.
Clinging to his Age of Fire, and in dire fear of humans,
and the Dark Lord who would one day be born amongst them,
Lord Gwyn resisted the course of nature. By sacrificing himself to link the Fire,
and commanding his children to shepherd the humans, Gwyn has blurred your past,
to prevent the birth of the Dark Lord. I am the primordial serpent.
I seek to right the wrongs of the past, to discover our true Lord.
But the other serpent, Frampt, lost his sense, and befriended Lord Gwyn.
Undead Warrior, we stand at a crossroads.
Only I know the truth about your fate. You must destroy the fading Lord Gwyn,
who has coddled Fire and resisted nature, and become
the Fourth Lord, so that you may usher in an Age of Dark.”
Kaathe provides an alternate objective to Kingseeker Frampt. To recap, Frampt states
that the fate of an undead, is to succeed Gwyn, and extend the Age of Fire. But Kaathe reveals that this is a lie, a ploy from
the gods to extend their age, to prevent the age of dark, also known as the age of
humanity. A predicament indeed for the Chosen Undead.
The Chosen Undead descends into the Catacombs. Located past the graveyard in Firelink Shrine. Skeletons inhabit the
majority of the catacombs, and can only be slain with either a divine weapon, or by killing the necromancer that raises
them. During the descent into the tombs, the Chosen Undead comes across Trusty Patches. Lautrec warned the Chosen Undead
previously, that Patches is not to be trusted. He is a mischievous swindler, who will stop at nothing to get the
treasures he desires. Speaking to Patches, reveals that he has a particular disdain towards clerics. Regardless, Patches will
attempt to kill the Chosen Undead, by flipping a bridge whilst they are still on it. Having survived this, the Chosen
Undead can approach Patches, who will feign ignorance, and give the Chosen Undead a Soul of a Lost Undead.
Compensation for a crime he apparently did not commit. However, this is not the last we see of Trusty Patches. Further
down, the Chosen Undead encounters a blacksmith called Vamos. He appears to be a very reclusive smith, so reclusive in
fact that no one else acknowledges his existence. Obsessed with his work, Vamos
has little time for conversation. Although not much is known about this mysterious figure, the Royal Helm states:
“The helm is believed to belong to an ancient royal line, but only Vamos would know for sure, and he shall never speak
gain.” Unfortunately, Vamos has chosen to never speak of this, and so not much is
known about the skeletal blacksmith. Deeper still, lies a large coffin, housing
an entity known as Pinwheel. It appears that this being has three heads and six arms. When the Chosen Undead confronts
Pinwheel, the heads appear to gaze at each other, as if they are deciding the fate of the Chosen Undead. Pinwheel turns
hostile, and prepares for battle. The creature is strangely fragile, and falls with relative ease. Upon his death, he
will either drop the Mask of the Father, Mother or Child. The Masks state that Pinwheel was a ”necromancer who stole the
power of the Gravelord, and reigns over the Catacombs.” Pinwheel also drops one additional item, the Rite of Kindling.
The description states “This secret rite allows bonfires to be bolstered further with Kindling, so that even more Estus
can be collected. How peculiar that humans had found little use for humanity until they turned Undead." The three masks
worn by Pinwheel, suggest that the frame is a combination of three bodies and minds. One theory, is that Pinwheel was
once a family that somehow fused together. Perhaps one of the family members died, and in an attempt to bring
them back to life, they stole the power of the Gravelord, and tried to revive their deceased loved ones. However, this
resulted in a morbid resurrection. Surrounding Pinwheel, is a vast collection of books and skeletons, all of
which are ensnared in chains. One can even be seen laying on the operating table, almost as if the Chosen Undead had
interrupted an experiment of some kind. Potentially, Pinwheel resurrected his family, but was finding a way to separate the
three fused bodies, to complete the process of resurrection. The Mask of the Father raises equipment
load, representing how the father metaphorically, or perhaps even quite literally as Pinwheel, carried his family.
The Mask of the Mother raises health, symbolising how she raised the morale of the family. Lastly, the Mask of the Child
raises the speed at which stamina is recovered, a symbol of a child’s energetic nature. Pinwheel also appears
to be someone of importance to Nito, as statues of him can be seen throughout the area. An empty coffin is also located
next to Nito, suggesting that Pinwheel may have been the highest rank amongst those in the tombs. Another, more
compelling theory also exists, the Effigy Shield states “the followers of the occult
once attempted to steal the power of the Gravelord, the first of the dead." Of course we now know that Pinwheel was
indeed successful in stealing the power of the Gravelord. Could it be that he was one of the leaders of the occult? Nito
may have developed the Rites of Kindling, in order to bolster the bonfires, as extending the Age of Fire
would lead to the undead sacrificing themselves, leading to more deaths, which was his domain.
The Way of White may have utilised this as well, in worship of Gywn. Through this meticulous plan, Gwyn could continue to
rule over the light, while Nito ruled over death. The Way of White was assisting Nito in retrieving the stolen
rites, as evidenced by Reah’s journey. It is worth noting that Paladin Leeroy, the
first undead produced by the Way of white, assists the Chosen Undead in slaying Pinwheel, but will defend Nito,
suggesting that he was only aiding in the retrieval of the Rites of Kindling. The rites, also suggest that Gwyn and
Nito worked together, to ensure the Age of Fire would never end. Further enforced by
the existence of bonfires, which are created with the bones of the undead. A masterful plan to fool humanity, into
fueling the Age of Fire. No wonder that Pinwheel decided to steal the secret
rites, in order to prevent further kindling and ultimately, to let the fires fade. Perhaps this is why he conducts
experiments on the skeletons, to better understand the process of death. At this
point, the Chosen Undead discovers the Tomb of the Giants. A pitch black cavern filled with large skeletons. From this
cavern, we can see Lost Izalith in the distance. It is here that the Chosen Undead bumps into Patches once more. Yet
again, he tricks the chosen, and sends them spiralling into a ditch. In this hole, we discover Reah of Thorolund, as well
as her two cleric knights, Vince and Nico. Both of which have become hollow, and attack the Chosen Undead, who swiftly
puts an end to them. Strangely, Petrus appears to be absent. Reah, now saved,
returns to Undead Parish. It seems her mission to obtain the Rites of Kindling has failed. If Patches is left alive, he
will return to Firelink Shrine, where he will sell all types of trinkets, including the armour worn by Vince and
Nico. Patches will also warn the Chosen Undead about Petrus:
...have you met Petrus, that self-proclaimed cleric? Believe me this one, bruv... The man is
scum. Don't you be fooled by his claims to do good. They're all the same, those
rotten clerics." Reah at this point, can be discovered in the Undead Parish, where she is grateful
to her saviour, and offers to sell Miracles. If Petrus is informed of the rescue, he will state:
“...Oh it's you... ...You rescued M'lady? Well, a pity that is,
for it will amount to nothing. For the little madam is not worth her salt without her family name."
This piece of dialogue, foreshadows the events to come. As if left to his own devices, Petrus will venture into the
Undead Parish, and murder Reah. On the other hand, if Petrus is killed after Reah is saved, she will survive. There
is also one other path, if the Chosen Undead acquires all the items Reah has to offer, she will be kidnapped and taken
to the Duke’s Archives, where it is discovered that she has become hollow. Sadly, the Chosen Undead could not save
her, but at least they could grant Reah her final wish. "If I do go Hollow,
then finish me off. I beg of you.”
It seems the pilgrimage she was ordained to complete, was doomed from the beginning. Finally, the Chosen Undead can confront
Gravelord Nito, the First of the Dead. He appears to be coated in Humanity, a hint
to his goals of absorbing the power of the undead, and working with Gwyn to suppress the human race. Just like any
other lord, Gravelord Nito falls, and so his soul falls into the possession of the Chosen Undead. The very being that
administers death to the world, had fallen. Much of Nito’s Lord Soul was offered to death, yet it remains powerful
enough to satiate the Lordvessel. Many years later, the Milfanito and Fenito,
would continue the teachings of the Great Dead One. By singing, the Milfanito would reassure the dead, while the Fenito
safeguarded them, allowing them a peaceful slumber. With three Lord Souls in possession, the
Chosen Undead ventures into Lost Izalith, to obtain the final Lord Soul. This once great city was ruled by the
Witch of Izalith, along with her Daughters of Chaos. As mentioned previously, Lost Izalith has now become
the birthplace of demons, a result of the Witch, who in her blasphemy, tried to create another First Flame. Ironic, that
the Witch of Izalith was able to create new life, only this life was demonic and volatile. Or was it? The demons of Izalith
seem intelligent, as if they had carved out their own civilization in Lordran. Each demon has their role, working
together to ensure the survival of their race, and defend their mother, the Witch of Izalith. Yet again, Gwyn’s involvement
may have played a role. Perhaps Izalith was a stable society of demons, before Gwyn dispatched his legion of Black
Knights, initiating the Demon War. One way or another, the war concluded, and Gwyn
placed demons in his ranks, acting as transporters and jailors. This also raises an important question, if Gwyn
never went to war with the demons, would they have ever posed a threat to his reign? Nevertheless, the Chosen Undead
continues. Strangely, a centipede-like demon can be seen stalking the Chosen, a
hint for the fight ahead. As the Chosen Undead navigates deeper into Lost Izalith, they come across the Demon Fire-
sage. A creature very similar to the Asylum and Stray Demon. “The Demon Fire- sage was the first demon, and the last
master of the original fire arts before the Witch of Izalith was engulfed by the Chaos, creating pyromancy.” After defeating
the Firesage, the Chosen Undead encounters the Centipede Demon. Upon slaying the demon, the Chosen receives an
Orange Charred Ring, which states that the Ceaseless Discharge was a “fool” who “readily dropped” the ring, “and from that
spot, a terrible centipede demon was born.” Explaining why it is dropped by the demon upon its death. Further ahead, the
Chosen Undead reunites with Solaire, only this time, his mind seems very far away.
He states: "Why... why... After all this searching,
I still cannot find it...” Of course he is referring to the sun, which he had been chasing ever since he
set foot in Lordran. After navigating through the lava fields, we witness Solaire for the last time. With a
parasitic organism embedded into his brain, he swings wildly, claiming that he had finally discovered his very own sun
"..Finally, I have found it, I have!...
...My very own sun... I... am the sun!
...I've done it... I have... ...Yes, I did it...
I did!..." The Chosen Undead has no choice, but to put the once joyous knight out of his
misery. "...Ahh, it's over... ...My Sun... it's setting...
...It's dark, so dark...” Things could have turned out differently
however. Should the Chosen Undead choose to become a Servant of Chaos, they can unlock a shortcut into Lost Izalith.
Behind the doors, lies several parasites, including the Sunlight Maggot. By using
this shortcut, the Chosen Undead is able to claim the Sunlight Maggot before Solaire, and inadvertently save his life.
The description reads “When worn on the head, it emanates blinding light, which is why it's known as a Sunlight Maggot.”
Solaire can then be discovered for the last time, where he states: “Was it all a lie?
Have I done this all, for nothing? Oh, my dear sun...
What now, what should I do?" He will forever be unaware, that the
Chosen Undead had saved him from madness. Advancing further into Lost Izalith, the
Chosen Undead encounters Siegmeyer. "No don't tell me. Those monsters making life difficult for
you? You need not be ashamed, we're all in the same boat. I really have run up quite a debt to you.
...Perhaps the time has come...” Two choices lay before the Chosen
Undead, they can slay all the Chaos Eaters and then speak with Siegmeyer who will state:
“Wait! ...Did you defeat those dire creatures? Outstanding...
You never fail to impress. This knight of Catarina thanks you. I
feel like I'm always thanking you... I curse my own inability." On the other hand, the Chosen Undead can
allow Siegmeyer to fight the Chaos Eaters alone, so that he can repay his debt to the Chosen Undead, for assisting him on
several occasions. However, if left to fight alone, Siegmeyer may fall. The Chosen
Undead then jumps into the pit, and aids Siegmeyer once again. The onion knight then
states that he is grateful, however there is something sombre about his response. One day, the Chosen Undead comes across
the body of Siegmeyer, laying on the shores of Ash Lake. He is accompanied by his daughter, who states:
“My father.. all Hollow now... has been subdued.
He will cause no more trouble. Oh, father...
Dear father..." Sieglinde came to Lordran, in search of her father. Her goal was to deliver the
last words of her mother, and fortunately was able to do so, before forcibly putting her hollow father to rest. His
hollow state is a result of the Chosen Undead’s continuous aid. Although they had saved Siegmeyer on several occasions,
they unknowingly stripped the brave and honourable knight of his purpose. What good was he to anyone, if he could not
solve his own problems or slay any creature alone? This dampened the morale of the Catarina knight. His honour was no
longer intact, and his worth as a knight dwindled in his mind. Siegmeyer, having lost
his purpose, and the will to live, became hollow.
Returning to Izalith, the Chosen Undead edges closer to the Witch, however several obstacles remain. Firstly, a
Daughter of Chaos, utilising devastating pyromancies, defends the entrance to her mother’s lair. This individual is
unveiled to be the eldest Daughter of Chaos. revealed by her Chaos Fire Whip pyromancy, which states that it “was
wielded by the eldest of The Daughters of Chaos”. During this fight, the Knight of Thorns, Kirk, can also invade this realm.
After quickly dispatching the daughter, the Chosen Undead then deals with the knight. He first invaded in the Depths,
and then again in the Demon Ruins. This invader, who had plagued the Undead’s journey, is slayed for the last time. His
final resting place lies in Quelaag’s Domain, near the Fair Lady. His armour reveals that Kirk was a “notorious member
of the Darkwraiths”. Kirk is also described as being “murderous”. Despite this, Somewhere along his path, Kirk
devoted himself to the Servants of Chaos, utilising his strengths as a Darkwraith, to pillage Humanity, and gift it to the
Fair Lady. Why he did this is unknown, either way, he had some sort of affinity,
towards the Daughter of Chaos. The path now cleared, the Chosen Undead descends
into the lair of the Witch of Izalith. Here we see the fate of the once great Witch. She has mutated into a tree-like
creature, titled the Bed of Chaos. Two seeds can be seen laying on either side of the Bed of Chaos, which could possibly
be two of her daughters. Perhaps these two were the closest in proximity to the Witch, when she attempted to create an
artificial First Flame. Destroying the two seeds, reveals a path to the core of the Bed of Chaos. Slashing through the
branches, a small parasite is discovered within. This creature, is all that is left
of the Witch of Izalith. The Chosen Undead, slays the creature with a single stroke, and chaos is unleashed. Chaos,
which would spiral out of control, and eventually go on to consume the Ivory King, and his loyal knights.
The demon civilisation, no longer maintained by the Bed of Chaos, would eventually die out, and an Old Demon King
would be the “last living witness of the Chaos of Izalith”. And with that, all the
lords had fallen, and only Gwyn himself remains.
Chapter VI: Oolacile and the Abyss
To tell the tale of the abyss, we must first travel back in time, centuries ago, to a land called Oolacile. An ancient
land of sorceries, swallowed by the abyss. The Enchanted Ember “a vestige of the
lost land of Oolacile”, suggests that the once great city had fallen. During the Chosen Undead’s journey, they are taken
to the depths of Darkroot Basin, where a hydra and a slew of Crystal Golems occupy the area. Once the creatures have
been slain, a Golden Crystal Golem can be discovered behind the hydra. Unlike the
others, this particular golem is unique, as it houses a person within. After the golem has been defeated, the Chosen
Undead can summon the once captive individual to their world. Doing so reveals that this person is Dusk, the
princess of Oolacile: “I am Dusk of Oolacile. I cometh from an age long before thine...
I can not stay here for long. So, before I disappear,
allow me to ask one thing. My home, Oolacile, is the home of ancient sorceries.
My hope, is to pass this profound knowledge to thee. With thine approval.
Would this be of assistance to thee?" Dusk explains that she is not in the correct time, and that the Oolacile
sorceries differ to the ones utilised by the Chosen Undead. The sorceries she sells are better suited for utility,
rather than for offensive purposes. She goes on to explain that her land, Oolacile, “was reduced to ashes”. It is unclear how
the princess left her land, and travelled forward in time. Time is convoluted in Lordran after all. But one thing is for
certain, the sorceries of Oolacile are unusual, and unknown to even the scholars
of Vinheim. It is important to note the summoning location of Princess Dusk. It
appears that the land of Oolacile, closely resembles that of the present day Darkroot Basin. The Royal
Wood in particular bears resemblance to Darkroot Garden. This suggests that over time, due to lack of maintenance, the land
was slowly consumed by vegetation, resulting in a dimly lit forest. With the princess rescued, the Chosen
Undead can obtain a Broken Pendant from the Duke’s Archives, once again protected by a crystal golem. Seath may have wanted
to study the pendant for its magical properties. This object is “Half of a broken stone pendant. The vine appears to
originate from Oolacile. A powerful magic can be sensed from this ancient stone. Yet men of this time can neither
manipulate nor sense its power, which has a distinct air consisting of both reverence and nostalgia."
With the pendant in hand, the Chosen Undead can now continue to Darkroot Basin. Doing so, results in a portal appearing.
Approaching this gateway, results in the hand of Manus, reaching out through time and space to grasp the pendant,
pulling the Chosen Undead a few hundred years into the past. What meaning this pendant holds is unknown, perhaps it is a
relic of Manus’ humanity. The first obstacle to overcome, before setting foot in the land of Oolacile, is
the Sanctuary Guardian. This creature is a “white winged lion sanctuary watch-
eeper, who dreaded the spread of the abyss”. Upon closer inspection, we can see
that the guardian is a hybrid of various animals. As it has the features of a lion, goat, a scorpion-like tail and a set of
wings. A ferocious guardian of the land. Once defeated, the Chosen Undead can venture into Oolacile Sanctuary. In this
sanctuary we discover Elizabeth, a giant mushroom. Her appearance is similar to
that of the Mushroom Parents discovered in the Great Hollow, and Darkroot Garden, however she cannot move, and has no limbs.
Perhaps the mushrooms evolved over time. When speaking to Elizabeth, she states:
Well, look at this one. From what far-away age has thou come?
Thy scent is very human, indeed... But, not intolerable...
Ah, Princess Dusk's saviour. Thine aura is precisely as she described.
I thank thee deeply, for rescuing Her Highness. But Princess Dusk is here no longer...
snatched away by that horrifying primeval human. And so I must ask...
Couldst thou once more play the saviour?”. Her dialogue confirms the Chosen Undead
has travelled through time. It also confirms that Dusk has been kidnapped by a primeval human. She then goes on to
state that she is the guardian of the sanctuary, acting as a godmother of sorts to Dusk.
“An abyss was begat of the ancient beast, and threatens to swallow the whole of
Oolacile. Knight Artorias came to stop this, but such a hero has nary a murmur of
Dark. Without doubt, he will be swallowed by the Abyss, overcome by its utter blackness...
Indeed, the Abyss may be unstoppable... Still
I have faith, that Princess Dusk may be rescued yet…”
Here we learn that the primeval human, the ancient beast, has brought ruin to Oolacile, and that Knight Artorias, one of
the four knights of Gwyn, was dispatched here to rescue Dusk from the beast, and in turn, halt the spreading of the abyss.
Elizabeth appears doubtful of his success, but she still has faith that Dusk may be rescued. She also confirms
that the Chosen Undead was not the only person pulled through time: “Not long ago,
I had another visitor. A human like thineself, from a far-away time.
Only, he was dreadfully odious... And I am afraid that he is still amongst
us." By the time of Drangleic, Elizabeth was revered as a saint that “devoted her life
to helping the needy by concocting medicine and potions. It's thought her great virtue was matched only by her
sublime beauty, but who can say now?” It seems knowledge regarding Elizabeth has changed over time, as she was described
as having “sublime beauty”, even though she is a mushroom, everyone has their own taste I suppose.
Her corpse is eventually discovered in Farron Keep, indicating that she never abandoned her duties. Beyond the
sanctuary, lies the Royal Wood. Traces of the abyss can be seen throughout the wood, as well as magical elevators,
constructed by the residents of Oolacile. Many monuments from the time of the Royal Wood can be seen in Darkroot
Garden, further enforcing the notion, that the two areas are one and the same. As the Chosen Undead navigates the forest,
they encounter a large black dragon, who briefly lands on a bridge before flying off into the distance. Nearby, the Chosen
Undead comes across an individual called Marvellous Chester. His appearance is similar to the description provided
by Elizabeth. Chester confirms he was pulled through time. ”Hm...
Oh, let me guess... Snatched by a shadowy limb, and dragged off to the past?
We ought to help one another out”. His appearance is unique, sporting a black long coat, and a tophat with a
mask. Although he talks as if he is trustworthy, he will attempt to invade the world of the chosen undead further
down the line. He chooses to use a sniper crossbow as his weapon, a “Large crossbow
with long distance used by Carim snipers.” This suggests he is from the kingdom of Carim. If he is killed while
invading, he will still sell items to the chosen undead, albeit reluctantly. He will
also share some key information to the chosen undead, providing context to the events that took place in Oolacile.
“Believe it or not, Oolacile has brought the Abyss upon itself.
Fooled by that toothy serpent, they upturned the grave of primeval man,
and incited his ornery wrath. What could they have been thinking?
But to you and I, it's all ancient history. You have to ask yourself.
Does it really matter?”. The toothy serpent is most likely Dark- stalker Kaathe, an advocate for the dark.
The kingdom of New Londo, was not the only city to fall due to Kaathe’s involvement, as it appears Oolacile had
suffered a similar fate. It seems that Kaathe had manipulated the minds of many for centuries, he wanted to harness the
dark, to overthrow the gods and usher in a new age of darkness. The folk of Oolacile could not avoid the temptation
of power, and chose to disturb the grave of the primeval human Manus, also known
as the Father of the Abyss. In turn, this resulted in the spread of the abyss. The
wrath of Manus could not be contained, and soon the residents would warp into servants of the dark, and bodies of
humanity would emanate from the abyss below. Manus was potentially a sorcerer from Oolacile, as all dark spells
reference a “Oolacile sorcerer on the brink of madness." Just like any other human, Manus
eventually died and was buried deep below Oolacile. His burial signifies he
may have been someone of importance, as his grave is encircled with stones in the ground. Some suggest that he may have
been the original furtive pygmy. To be furtive, is to avoid attention, he died alone away from sight, only for his
remains to be defiled. He could also be one of the many pygmies who was trapped in the Ringed City, only to escape to the
land of Oolacile, where he would one day die. Even after his death, remnants of his
humanity remain, as he reached through time to retrieve his pendant. Turning now to Artorias, the Abysswalker.
Gwyn, the Lord of Sunlight, feared the dark, as it threatened his Age of Fire, the age of gods. The encroaching darkness
was a sign of the rise of humanity, and so he tasks one of his Knights, Artorias, to traverse the abyss, rescue the
princess, and slay the source itself. Artorias was well equipped to deal with the abyss, and was the most suitable
knight for the task at hand. His greatsword was designed to strike harder against dark servants. He was also
accompanied by the Great Grey Wolf Sif, who was much younger during the events of Oolacile. In addition, Artorias was
also in a covenant with the beasts of the abyss. Ultimately, Artorias was bested,
and was forced to withdraw. A trail of abyss substance leading from the Chasm of the Abyss, to Artorias’
location, highlights his path of retreat. By the time the chosen undead reaches the knight, he is nothing but a husk of his
former self. A once great knight corrupted by the abyss, as confirmed by his armour. “The death of the armor's owner
can be surmised from the corrosive Dark of the Abyss, and the tattered azure-blue cape, once a symbol of pride and glory.”
Artorias, in his madness, still appears to be hunting the servants of the dark, even
after his death, signifying that some of his ideals have been retained. His left hand is limp and mangled, as he left his
greatshield behind to protect Sif from the abyss. Artorias did manage to crawl
out of the chasm, but it was too late. The Chosen Undead frees Artorias, but the legend of the abysswalker does not die
with him. However, this version of events contradicts history. If Artorias fell to
the abyss, then how was Dusk of Oolacile saved? How was the spreading of the abyss halted?
Why do item descriptions and the testimonies of individuals refer to Artorias, as the savior of Oolacile? The
legend of Artorias the Abysswalker, is nothing but a myth. In truth, the Chosen
Undead would navigate through Oolacile Township, fighting the endless onslaught of servants of the dark, and eventually
they would descend through the dungeon, into the Chasm of the Abyss. There they would discover Alvina, who would guide
the Chosen Undead to a young Sif, protected by the veil of Artorias’ shield. Sif accompanies the Chosen
Undead, as he once did Artorias, and together, they would put Manus to rest.
The soul of Manus is described as a “lukewarm lump of gentle humanity”. Upon closer inspection of the soul, we can see
humanity at its centre, as well as dark sprites emerging from within. It also goes on to state that “Ancient Manus was
clearly once human. But he became the Father of the Abyss after his humanity went wild, eternally seeking his precious
broken pendant.” Potentially the pendant was pillaged from his grave, although this is never confirmed.
Tragic is the tale of Artorias, the knight famous for his prowess in the abyss, who could not halt the
corruption in Oolacile. Even in New Londo, Darkwraiths remain to this day. Perhaps
the abyss is insurmountable. Regardless, the legend of Artorias would ripple through the ages, giving rise to Farron’s
Undead Legion, the Abyss Watchers. Fighters who embody Artorias’ combat style, and fight the abyss, both in life,
and in death. Returning to Artorias’ location, the Chosen Undead discovers a woman, kneeling
and paying respects to the deceased. This individual is Ciaran, one of Gwyn’s knights. If the Chosen Undead speaks to
Ciaran with the Soul of Artorias in their possession, she will say: “...You,
is that not... The soul of the man who fell on this spot, he was a dear friend.
I wish to pay proper respect, with that Soul. Would you be willing to part with
it?” If given to her, she will offer a pair of Gold and Dark Silver Tracers in
exchange. It is not clear whether she was romantically involved with Artorias, or
if she just had great respect for her fellow knight. If slain, she will cry out:
"You humans... My dear... Artorias."
This statement insinuates they may have been linked romantically. Either way, she is one of the few that knew the truth,
regarding the legend of Artorias. With Manus put to rest, Elizabeth states
the following: “Thou hast rescued Princess Dusk, and rid us of that terrible primeval
human. Even halting the spread of the Abyss! I salute the grandeur of thine
enterprise. I thank thee... as do we all.
I will remember thee, but I will keep thy story to myself.
This is the best way, for thou art come from a time far ahead.
No-one will sing thy praises, but yet thy greatness shall live on.
For it shall be my purpose, to remember all thou hast done for us.”
The true saviour of Oolacile, returns to their present day, where they can converse with Dusk:
“This may strike thine ear as somewhat peculiar, but...
Long ago, in my homeland of Oolacile, I was beset by a creature from the Abyss.
I would have perished then, Were it not for the great knight Artorias.
In truth, I saw little of what transpired, for mine senses were already fled!
But even still, there was something about Artorias...
A certain balance of the humours... That quite perfectly fits your semblance.
Heavens, could it be that... Oh dear me. That was Oolacile, many centuries ago.
Please excuse my fanciful musings. Only, it was so very odd...
You, and Artorias. I owe my life to each of you. And both
seem to share some resonance of sorts... Perhaps it is the nature of true
greatness. I still think on that creature from the Abyss that preyed upon me.
My faculties were far from lucid, but I quite clearly sensed certain
emotions. A wrenching nostalgia, a lost joy,
an object of obsession, and a sincere hope to reclaim it...
Could these thoughts belong to the beast from the Abyss? But if that were true,
then perhaps it is no beast after all? It's just that, I wish to know the truth.
And no one, not even loving Elizabeth, will tell me."
It appears that out of respect for Artorias, Elizabeth hid the truth from the world, although Dusk notices the
striking similarities between Artorias and the Chosen Undead. She also recounts
that Manus did have emotions after all, an essence of his humanity remained, symbolised by his desperation to
retrieve the Broken Pendant. Alvina, also confirms in the present day, that the story of Artorias is "none but a
fabrication" and “a fairy tale”. Although she still respects Artorias. Many bandits
and adventurers seek the treasures left behind at the grave of the Abysswalker, Alvina tries to sway people away, in
order to preserve his legacy and safeguard Sif. When approaching the grave of Artorias, despite centuries
having been passed, an adolescent Sif still recognises the Chosen Undead, they did fight side-by-side in the abyss
after all. Howling in anguish, Sif reluctantly picks up his master’s sword, and prepares for battle.
The great grey wolf does not want you to traverse the abyss, and succumb to its corruption, and so fights against the
Chosen Undead. But the Chosen Undead is bound by fate, to obtain the Covenant of Artorias, to traverse the abyss once more.
During the journey to the past, the Chosen Undead comes across another knight of Gwyn, Hawkeye Gough. A giant, who wields
a bow to pierce dragons, a crucial ally to Gwyn. Sadly, Gough has been trapped in
this tower, as some look down on his kind. Furthermore, Gough appears to be blind,
however his lack of vision is due to his helmet. It appears that the eye holes have been filled with “tree resin by
those who dismissed Gough as a brutish giant.” He recognises the Chosen Undead as the one who freed Artorias, and thanks
them for allowing him to leave this world, with his honour intact. Gough also confirms Chester’s versions of events,
that the townsfolk of Oolacile were persuaded by a dark serpent, and brought about their own ruin. From Gough, we
also learn that the dragon witnessed previously, is in fact Kalameet. Even if the city of gods would not confront the
beast, Gough will assist the Chosen Undead in taking down the Black Dragon. With the greatest of great bows in hand, Gough fires
an arrow into the sky, piercing the dragon, and forcing it to land. It is important to note that Kalameet, is
referenced as the last of the ancient dragons. An interesting choice of words, considering the Everlasting Dragon and
Seath the Scaleless still exist. Nevertheless, Kalameet’s life is one of solitude. The
Chosen Undead ventures to the location of the grounded dragon, and engages the beast. Kalameet, the bringer of calamity,
is slain. After his death, a faction called the Dragon Knights would be born. Harnessing the scales of the dead dragon,
they forged weapons and armour. These items prove the existence of Kalameet, a dragon many considered nothing, but a
mere legend. And so Kalameet, in a land devoid of dragons, had to die to prove
his own existence.
Chapter VII: Kiln of the First Flame
The Chosen Undead’s pilgrimage is close to its end. Offering the lord souls to the vessel, results in the opening of a
gateway. A blinding white light beckons the Chosen Undead. Here lies the final gauntlet. A myriad of phantom knights
patrol the entrance, but pose no threat, the souls of those who were disembodied by the flame. Crossing this stairway, leads to
the Kiln of the First Flame. A wasteland coated in ash, evidence of the ferocity
at which the flame once burnt. Black Knights defend the area, however they pose little threat to the Chosen Undead,
the slayer of lords. These knights were stationed, to protect Gwyn as he linked the flame. On a narrow bridge, a suit of
Black Knight Armour can be obtained. “The knights followed Lord Gwyn when he departed to link the flame, but they were
burned to ashes in newly kindled fire, wandering the world as disembodied spirits ever after.” Delving deeper, a
golden summoning sign can be seen before the final gate. This sign belongs to Solaire. Although he could not discover
his own sun, he pressed on. As an undead, just like many others, he would conclude
his pilgrimage, by setting himself ablaze. All that remains, is to venture through the fog, one last time. To face the Lord
of Sunlight himself. At the heart of the kiln, next to the fabled First Flame, stands Gwyn, the Lord of Cinder. For only
cinders remain of the once great lord. His appearance is representative, of the sacrifice he made, and the depths to
which he delved to keep the flame from extinguishing. His family splintered, and his firstborn banished, Gwyn had no
choice but to link the fire with his own body. Offering much of himself to the flame, resulted in him, being stripped of
his power, and the decimation of his own army. His famous miracles of lightning are absent in this duel. The Chosen
Undead, with or without Solaire’s aid, would put an end to the Lord of Light. However
the machinations of Gwyn, would continue through the ages. As many Lords of Cinder,
would continue to link the fading flame. Eventually, this would result in the creation of the Soul of Cinder, a
physical manifestation, of all that had linked the fire. Two options now lay before the Chosen Undead. Do they link
the fire, and prolong an age that may one day die, and fulfil the wishes of King- seeker Frampt? Or do they turn their back
on Gwyn, as he once did to mankind, and allow the flame to fade. Should the fire be linked, the Chosen Undead is
consumed by the inferno, and their powerful Soul, fuels the fire for many ages hence. Should they choose to deviate
from the Undead Pilgrimage, they can walk away from the flame, where many Primordial Serpents have gathered, to
greet the Chosen Undead. Among these serpents, is Kaathe and Frampt. Strangely,
Frampt kneels before the Dark Lord, and offers their service, suggesting the serpent had a change of heart. Or
perhaps, Kaathe and Frampt were never truly rivals, and regardless of the outcome, they would benefit from the
struggle of those around them. As these imperfect dragons, appear to have outlasted the everlasting dragons, and
the gods themselves. Nonetheless, the Chosen Undead now rules as a Dark Lord,
reigning over the approaching Age of Dark. How did the fate of Lordran come to this?
Gwyn, refused to let the Age of Fire end, and as a result, committed the First Sin.
By linking the fire, and denying the transition of the ages, Gwyn halted the undeniable course of nature. The Age of
Fire, should never have been extended, yet it was. Even if the Chosen Undead rules
over an Age of Dark, embers will always remain, and those faithful to the lords, will forever embark on a pilgrimage, to
link the First Flame. Resulting in a paradox, the Age of Fire can never truly end, and the Age of Dark can never
prosper. The two struggle to coexist. Yet how can there be light, without dark?
Still, the Lord of Light tried to banish it. In the words of Kaathe, the Furtive Pygmy waited for the fire to dim, but
this never occurred. But can we trust the word of the devious serpent? The cycle is infinite. A fabricated timeline of
distortion. Even if the darkness settles, one day, tiny flames will dance across
the darkness. Like embers, linked by the lords past. This world, can no longer be
inherited by humanity. Hopefully, one day, someone can paint a tranquil world, for
those who remain. In the constant battle between the light and the dark, perhaps we must ask ourselves, what lies beyond
it? Exhilaration, pride,
hatred, rage. The dragons teased out our dearest
emotions. Lead thy life as thou seeist fit.
Farewell human. Regrettably, I have failed in my mission,
but perhaps you can keep the torch lit. Well now you know,
and I can die with hope in my heart. If you require rest,
now is the time. That is after all, what the bonfire is for.
When I gave you that flame, I gave you a part of myself. Please take good care of it.
Be safe friend, don't you dare go hollow. Please, save us all,
please. Ah, it's over.
My sun, it's setting, it's,
dark... so dark... Was it all a lie?
Have I done this all for nothing? Well, you saved me once again.
Dear me what can I say? I have failed you. My daughter risks life and limb just to
find me. Heavens, I never asked her to do that.
Mother's ambitions were misguided no doubt, but surely a thousand years of atonement
is enough? Farewell...
my mother... my sisters...
Please sister, do not cry, I am happy really.
I have you... don't I? I beg of thee, the spread of the Abyss...
must be stopped. The breaking of curses is the territory of deities.
You must be prepared to give some of yourself. Beyond the scope of light,
beyond the reach of dark... What could possiblly await us?
And yet we seek it, insatiably. Such is our fate.